{"id": "21453335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21453335", "title": "Adversarial purchasing", "text": "Adversarial purchasing\n\nAdversarial purchasing is the corporate practice of buying identical or equivalent items from competing suppliers. It is a form of strategic management designed to increase competition for a buyer's business in business-to-business relationships while simultaneously lowering the firm's dependence on a single supplier. Successful implementation of this strategy can lower the firm's prices and raise the service and attention from its suppliers.\n\n"}
{"id": "26486193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26486193", "title": "BEEPS", "text": "BEEPS\n\nThe Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) is an extensive economic survey undertaken as a joint initiative of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.\n\nThe BEEPS surveys are conducted in the countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia and gather information about key indicators on topics important for business environment such as problems doing Business, informal payments and corruption, Finance, Labor, Crime, Infrastructure, innovation, legal and judicial issues, taxation, customs and cross border trade, and more. Survey results are made public as The BEEPS-At-A-Glance Country Profiles as well as the Cross Country Report.\n\nThe first survey was conducted in 1999-2000 to assess the business environment and performance of firms in the countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia. The sample included about 4000 firms. Since then three other rounds of the survey have been conducted.\nThe 2008-2009 survey covered more than 11,000 firms. The 2008 round survey questionnaire and the sampling methodology were significantly modified, making direct cross-period comparisons problematic.\nThis survey was conducted in the following 28 countries: Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Montenegro, Lithuania, Latvia, Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Russian Federation, Romania, Serbia, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkey, Ukraine, Uzbekistan.\n\nSeveral other projects are conducted with a similar purpose of describing business environment in different countries, most notably \"The Doing Business Report\". Unlike \"The Doing Business Report\", BEEPS are only conducted in the countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "17099795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17099795", "title": "Blindspots analysis", "text": "Blindspots analysis\n\nBlindspots analysis (also blind spots analysis) is a method aimed at uncovering obsolete, incomplete, or incorrect assumptions in a decision maker’s mental scheme of the environment. Michael Porter used the term \"blind spots\" to refer to conventional wisdom which no longer holds true, but which still guides business strategy. The concept was further popularized by Barbara Tuchman, in her book \"The March of Folly\" (1984), to describe political decisions and strategies which were clearly wrong in their assumptions, and by other authors since, such as social psychologists Mahzarin Banaji and Anthony Greenwald in their study of prejudice.\n\nBen Gilad fully developed, in his book, \"Business Blindspots\" (1994), the following three-step \"Gilad method\" for uncovering blind spots\n\nUnderlying Blindspots Analysis is an assumption about the inherent biases of decision making at the top of organizations (business, government or otherwise) exceeding those of their subordinates or outsiders. While many top executives in business and government organizations are smart, capable people, they are also vulnerable to several decision biases that come with their powerful positions, including cognitive dissonance, motivated cognitions, overconfidence, and ego-involvement. The impaired ability of leaders to see reality for what it is, and the more objective (less ego-involved) analysis of analysts and mid-level planners means that Step 3 of the Blindspots Analysis can be a powerful tool for pointing to potential blinders\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41347709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41347709", "title": "Boats.com", "text": "Boats.com\n\nboats.com is an online advertising website based in Miami, Florida, United States. In addition to Miami, boats.com has operations in Fareham and Padova. The company has websites in 9 markets and 8 languages, listing over 350,000 boats in approximately 150 countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18898191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18898191", "title": "Boutique manufacturing", "text": "Boutique manufacturing\n\nBoutique manufacturing is a method used for the custom production of certain products in limited quantities by hand or with a restricted level of automation. Products produced this way often include ceramics, furniture, amplifiers, yachts, boats, leather goods or watches and jewellery among others. In industrial countries, boutique manufacturing is being selected generally for high class goods in upper price levels and only for single products or small batches.\n\nThe key advantages of boutique manufacturing in comparison to traditional factory manufacturing with batch fabrication, large or mass production are as follows:\n\nConsequently, boutique manufacturing closes the gap between piece production and small batch/low volume production. The workflow organization of a boutique manufacturing entity can be a mixture of both – elements of jobbing or batch production, however involving higher standardization than the first one. Often boutique manufacturing workshop and factories are organized with single workplaces or production cells carrying out a number of subsequent production steps until completion of certain components or even the whole product. Flexibility and variety of products being able to produce in the entity therefore are much higher than with the more standardized method batch production. \n\nHowever, with this method, manufacturing of larger quantities of unified products is not possible at reasonable costs. Serial fabrication or large production of goods then would be suitable alternative production methods involving higher grades of automation and standardization.\n\n"}
{"id": "53360944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53360944", "title": "Business metadata", "text": "Business metadata\n\nBusiness metadata is data that adds business context to other data. It provides information authored by business people and/or used by business people. It is in contrast to technical metadata, which is data used in the storage and structure of the data in a database or system. Technical metadata includes the database table name and column name, data type, indexes referencing the data, ETL jobs involving the data, when the data was last updated, accessed, etc.\n\nAccording to noted author and columnist Lowell Fryman, \"The essence of business metadata is in reducing or eliminating the barriers of communication between human and human, as well as human and computer, so that the data conveyed from reports, information systems, or business intelligence applications can be crystal clear, can facilitate business operations, and can be leveraged for all business decision-making processes.\"\n\nDan Linstedt, creator of the Data Vault methodology, says business metadata \"...provide[s] definition of the functionality, definition of the data, definition of the elements, and definition of how the data is used within business...business metadata includes business requirements, time-lines, business metrics, business process flows, and business terminology.\"\n\nBusiness metadata is important because it can greatly facilitate the usefulness of the data to business people. A simple example of business metadata is a glossary entry. Hover functionality in an application or web form can enable a glossary definition to be shown when cursor is on a field or term.\n\nOther examples of business metadata include annotation ability within applications. For example, a business user may be viewing a business intelligence (BI) report and notice a trend in the data. The user may have background knowledge as to why this trend occurs. Some business intelligence tools enable the user to create an annotation within the report that explains the trend. Such an annotation can enhance other users' understanding of the data. This example is especially powerful because it is created by a business user for the use of other business people.\n\nOther examples of business metadata are:\n"}
{"id": "342977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342977", "title": "Business process", "text": "Business process\n\nA business process or business method is a collection of related, structured activities or tasks by people or equipment that in a specific sequence produces a service or product (serves a particular business goal) for a particular customer or customers. Business processes occur in all organizantional level and it may or may not be visible to customers. A business process may often be visualized (modeled) as a flowchart of a sequence of activities with interleaving decision points or as a process matrix of a sequence of activities with relevance rules based on data in the process. The benefits of using business processes include improved customer satisfaction and improved agility for reacting to rapid market change. Process-oriented organizations break down the barriers of structural departments and try to avoid functional silos.\n\nA business process begins with a mission objective (an external event) and ends with achievement of the business objective of providing a result that provides customer value. Additionally, a process may be divided into subprocesses (process decomposition), the particular inner functions of the process. Business processes may also have a process owner, a responsible party for ensuring the process runs smoothly from start to finish. \n\nBroadly speaking, business processes can be organized into three types, according to von Rosing \"et al.\":\n\n\nA slightly different approach to these three types is offered by Kirchmer:\n\n\nA complex business process may be decomposed into several subprocesses, which have their own attributes but also contribute to achieving the overall goal of the business. The analysis of business processes typically includes the mapping or modeling of processes and sub-processes down to activity/task level. Processes can be modeled through a large number of methods and techniques. For instance, the Business Process Modeling Notation is a business process modeling technique that can be used for drawing business processes in a visualized workflow. While decomposing processes into process types and categories can be useful, care must be taken in doing so as there may be crossover. In the end, all processes are part of a largely unified outcome, one of \"customer value creation.\" This goal is expedited with business process management, which aims to analyze, improve, and enact business processes.\n\nAn important early (1776) description of processes was that of economist Adam Smith in his famous example of a pin factory. Inspired by an article in Diderot's Encyclopédie, Smith described the production of a pin in the following way:\n\n”One man draws out the wire; another straights it; a third cuts it; a fourth points it; a fifth grinds it at the top for receiving the head; to make the head requires two or three distinct operations; to put it on is a peculiar business; to whiten the pins is another ... and the important business of making a pin is, in this manner, divided into about eighteen distinct operations, which, in some manufactories, are all performed by distinct hands, though in others the same man will sometimes perform two or three of them.”\n\nSmith also first recognized how the output could be increased through the use of labor division. Previously, in a society where production was dominated by handcrafted goods, one man would perform all the activities required during the production process, while Smith described how the work was divided into a set of simple tasks, which would be performed by specialized workers. The result of labor division in Smith’s example resulted in productivity increasing by 24,000 percent (sic), i.e. that the same number of workers made 240 times as many pins as they had been producing before the introduction of labor division.\n\nIt is worth noting that Smith did not advocate labor division at any price and \"per se\". The appropriate level of task division was defined through experimental design of the production process. In contrast to Smith's view which was limited to the same functional domain and comprised activities that are in direct sequence in the manufacturing process, today's process concept includes cross-functionality as an important characteristic. Following his ideas, the division of labor was adopted widely, while the integration of tasks into a functional, or cross-functional, process was not considered as an alternative option until much later.\n\nAmerican engineer, Frederick Winslow Taylor greatly influenced and improved the quality of industrial processes in the early twentieth century. His Principles of Scientific Management focused on standardization of processes, systematic training and clearly defining the roles of management and employees. His methods were widely adopted in the United States, Russia and parts of Europe and led to further developments such as “time and motion study” and visual task optimization techniques, such as Gantt charts.\n\nIn the latter part of the twentieth century, management guru Peter Drucker focused much of his work on simplification and decentralization of processes, which led to the concept of outsourcing. He also coined the concept of the \"knowledge worker — as differentiated from manual workers — and how knowledge management would become part of an entity's processes.\n\nDavenport (1993) defines a (business) process as:\n\n”a structured, measured set of activities designed to produce a specific output for a particular customer or market. It implies a strong emphasis on how work is done within an organization, in contrast to a product focus’s emphasis on what. A process is thus a specific ordering of work activities across time and space, with a beginning and an end, and clearly defined inputs and outputs: a structure for action. ... Taking a process approach implies adopting the customer’s point of view. Processes are the structure by which an organization does what is necessary to produce value for its customers.”\n\nThis definition contains certain characteristics a process must possess. These characteristics are achieved by a focus on the business logic of the process (how work is done), instead of taking a product perspective (what is done). Following Davenport's definition of a process we can conclude that a process must have clearly defined boundaries, input and output, that it consists of smaller parts, activities, which are ordered in time and space, that there must be a receiver of the process outcome- a customer - and that the transformation taking place within the process must add customer value.\n\nHammer & Champy’s (1993) definition can be considered as a subset of Davenport’s. They define a process as:\n\n”a collection of activities that takes one or more kinds of input and creates an output that is of value to the customer.”\n\nAs we can note, Hammer & Champy have a more transformation oriented perception, and put less emphasis on the structural component – process boundaries and the order of activities in time and space.\n\nRummler & Brache (1995) use a definition that clearly encompasses a focus on the organization’s external customers, when stating that\n\n”a business process is a series of steps designed to produce a product or service. Most processes (...) are cross-functional, spanning the ‘white space’ between the boxes on the organization chart. Some processes result in a product or service that is received by an organization's external customer. We call these primary processes. Other processes produce products that are invisible to the external customer but essential to the effective management of the business. We call these support processes.”\nThe above definition distinguishes two types of processes, primary and support processes, depending on whether a process is directly involved in the creation of customer value, or concerned with the organization’s internal activities. In this sense, Rummler and Brache's definition follows Porter's value chain model, which also builds on a division of primary and secondary activities. According to Rummler and Brache, a typical characteristic of a successful process-based organization is the absence of secondary activities in the primary value flow that is created in the customer oriented primary processes. The characteristic of processes as spanning the white space on the organization chart indicates that processes are embedded in some form of organizational structure. Also, a process can be cross-functional, i.e. it ranges over several business functions.\n\nJohansson et al. (1993). define a process as:\n\n”a set of linked activities that take an input and transform it to create an output. Ideally, the transformation that occurs in the process should add value to the input and create an output that is more useful and effective to the recipient either upstream or downstream.”\n\nThis definition also emphasizes the constitution of links between activities and the transformation that takes place within the process. Johansson et al. also include the upstream part of the value chain as a possible recipient of the process output. Summarizing the four definitions above, we can compile the following list of characteristics for a business process:\n\n\nFrequently, identifying a process owner, (i.e., the person responsible for the continuous improvement of the process) is considered as a prerequisite. Sometimes the process owner is the same person who is performing the process.\n\nWorkflow is the procedural movement of information, material, and tasks from one participant to another. Workflow includes the procedures, people and tools involved in each step of a business process. A single workflow may either be sequential, with each step contingent upon completion of the previous one, or parallel, with multiple steps occurring simultaneously. Multiple combinations of single workflows may be connected to achieve a resulting overall process.\n\nBusiness process re-engineering (BPR) was originally conceptualized by Hammer and Davenport as a means to improve organizational effectiveness and productivity. It consisted of starting from a blank slate and completely recreating major business processes as well as the use of information technology for significant performance improvement. The term unfortunately became associated with corporate \"downsizing\" in the mid-1990s.\n\nThough the term has been used contextually to mixed effect, \"business process management\" (BPM) can generally be defined as a discipline involving a combination of a wide variety of business activity flows (e.g., business process automation, modeling, and optimization) that strives to support the goals of an enterprise within and beyond multiple boundaries, involving many people, from employees to customers and external partners. A major part of BPM's enterprise support involves the continuous evaluation of existing processes and the identification of ways to improve upon it, resulting in a cycle of overall organizational improvement.\n\nKnowledge management is the definition of the knowledge that employees and systems use to perform their functions and maintaining it in a format that can be accessed by others. The Duhon and the Gartner Group have defined it as \"a discipline that promotes an integrated approach to identifying, capturing, evaluating, retrieving, and sharing all of an enterprise's information assets. These assets may include databases, documents, policies, procedures, and previously un-captured expertise and experience in individual workers.\"\n\nTotal quality management (TQM) emerged in the early 1980s as organizations sought to improve the quality of their products and services. It was followed by the Six Sigma methodology in the mid-1980s, first introduced by Motorola. Six Sigma consists of statistical methods to improve business processes and thus reduce defects in outputs. The \"lean approach\" to quality management was introduced by the Toyota Motor Company in the 1990s and focused on customer needs and reduction of wastage.\n\nAdvances in information technology over the years, have changed business processes within and between business enterprises. In the 1960s, operating systems had limited functionality, and any workflow management systems that were in use were tailor-made for the specific organization. The 1970s-1980s saw the development of data-driven approaches, as data storage and retrieval technologies improved. Data modeling rather than process modeling was the starting point for building an information system. Business processes had to adapt to information technology because process modeling was neglected. The shift towards process-oriented management occurred in the 1990s. Enterprise resource planning software with workflow management components such as SAP, Baan, PeopleSoft, Oracle and JD Edwards emerged, as did business process management systems (BPMS) later.\n\nThe world of e-business created a need to automate business processes across organizations, which in turn raised the need for standardized protocols and web services composition languages that can be understood across the industry. The Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN) and Business Motivation Model (BMM) are widely used standards for business modeling. The Business Modeling and Integration Domain Task Force (BMI DTF) is a consortium of vendors and user companies that continues to work together to develop standards and specifications to promote collaboration and integration of people, systems, processes and information within and across enterprises.\n\nThe most recent trends in BPM are influenced by the emergence of cloud technology, the prevalence of social media, mobile technology, and the development of analytical techniques. Cloud-based technologies allow companies to purchase resources quickly and as required independent of their location. Social media, websites and smart phones are the newest channels through which organizations reach and support their customers. The abundance of customer data collected through these channels as well as through call center interactions, emails, voice calls, and customer surveys has led to a huge growth in data analytics which in turn is utilized for performance management and improving the ways in which the company services its customers.\n\nBusiness processes comprise a set of sequential sub-processes or tasks with alternative paths, depending on certain conditions as applicable, performed to achieve a given objective or produce given outputs. Each process has one or more needed inputs. The inputs and outputs may be received from, or sent to other business processes, other organizational units, or internal or external stakeholders.\n\nBusiness processes are designed to be operated by one or more business functional units, and emphasize the importance of the “process chain” rather than the individual units.\n\nIn general, the various tasks of a business process can be performed in one of two ways:\n\n\nTypically, some process tasks will be manual, while some will be computer-based, and these tasks may be sequenced in many ways. In other words, the data and information that are being handled through the process may pass through manual or computer tasks in any given order.\n\nThe above improvement areas are equally applicable to policies, processes, detailed procedures (sub-processes/tasks) and work instructions. There is a cascading effect of improvements made at a higher level on those made at a lower level.\n\nFor example, if a recommendation to replace a given policy with a better one is made with proper justification and accepted in principle by business process owners, then corresponding changes in the consequent processes and procedures will follow naturally in order to enable implementation of the policies.\n\nBusiness processes must include up-to-date and accurate reports to ensure effective action. An example of this is the availability of purchase order status reports for supplier delivery follow-up as described in the section on effectiveness above. There are numerous examples of this in every possible business process.\n\nAnother example from production is the process of analysis of line rejections occurring on the shop floor. This process should include systematic periodical analysis of rejections by reason, and present the results in a suitable information report that pinpoints the major reasons, and trends in these reasons, for management to take corrective actions to control rejections and keep them within acceptable limits. Such a process of analysis and summarisation of line rejection events is clearly superior to a process which merely inquires into each individual rejection as it occurs.\n\nBusiness process owners and operatives should realise that process improvement often occurs with introduction of appropriate transaction, operational, highlight, exception or M.I.S. reports, provided these are consciously used for day-to-day or periodical decision-making. With this understanding would hopefully come the willingness to invest time and other resources in business process improvement by introduction of useful and relevant reporting systems.\n\nThe span of control is the number of subordinates a supervisor manages within a structural organization. Introducing a business process concept has a considerable impact on the structural elements of the organization and thus also on the span of control.\n\nLarge organizations that are not organized as markets need to be organized in smaller units – departments – which can be defined according to different principles.\n\nInformation management, and the organization infrastructure strategies related to it, are a theoretical cornerstone of the business process concept, requiring \"a framework for measuring the level of IT support for business processes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2254416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2254416", "title": "Business record", "text": "Business record\n\nA business record is a document (hard copy or digital) that records a business dealing. Business records include meeting minutes, memoranda, employment contracts, and .\n\nIt must be retrievable at a later date so that the business dealings can be accurately reviewed as required. Since business is dependent upon confidence and trust, not only must the record be accurate and easily retrieved, the processes surrounding its creation and retrieval must be perceived by customers and the business community to consistently deliver a full and accurate record with no gaps or additions.\n\nMost business records have specified retention periods based on legal requirements and / or internal company policies. This is important because in many countries (including the United States) many documents \"may\" be required by law to be disclosed to government regulatory agencies or to the general public. Likewise, they \"may\" be discoverable if the business is sued. Under the business records exception in the Federal Rules of Evidence, certain types of business records, particularly those made and kept with regularity, may be considered admissible in court despite containing hearsay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47621458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47621458", "title": "CK Asset Holdings", "text": "CK Asset Holdings\n\nCK Asset Holdings, previously known as Cheung Kong Property Holdings Limited, is a property developer registered in the Cayman Islands, with its headquarters and principal place of business in Hong Kong. The company was established in 2015 as part of a restructure of the CK Hutchison Holdings conglomerate, by spinning off CK Hutchison Holdings's property holdings into a separate company. Cheung Kong Property Holdings began trading on 3 June 2015.\n"}
{"id": "5060884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5060884", "title": "Cash-flow diagram", "text": "Cash-flow diagram\n\nA cash-flow diagram is a tool used by accountants and engineers, to represent the transactions of cash which will take place over the course of a given project. Transactions can include initial investments, maintenance costs, projected earnings or savings resulting from the project, as well as salvage and resale value of equipment at the end of the project. Cash flow diagrams may also be used to represent payment schedules for bonds, mortgages and other types of loans.It is often used with a break even sheet and a balance sheet in order to see where money is being made or lost. Also it is used to monitor results of different things. For instance when changing variables it will see if they are successful or not in causing future profit.\n"}
{"id": "1953222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953222", "title": "Cash advance", "text": "Cash advance\n\nA cash advance is a service provided by most credit card and charge card issuers. The service allows cardholders to withdraw cash, either through an ATM or over the counter at a bank or other financial agency, up to a certain limit. For a credit card, this will be the credit limit (or some percentage of it).\n\nCash advances often incur a fee of 3 to 5 percent of the amount being borrowed. When made on a credit card, the interest is often higher than other credit card transactions. The interest compounds daily starting from the day cash is borrowed.\n\nSome \"purchases\" made with a credit card of items that are viewed as cash are also considered to be cash advances in accordance with the credit card network's guidelines, thereby incurring the higher interest rate and the lack of the grace period. These often include money orders, prepaid debit cards, lottery tickets, gaming chips, and certain taxes and fees paid to certain governments. However, should the merchant not disclose the actual nature of the transactions, these will be processed as regular credit card transactions. Many merchants have passed on the credit card processing fees to the credit card holders in spite of the credit card network's guidelines, which state the credit card holders should not have any extra fee for doing a transaction with a credit card.\n\nUnder card scheme rules, a credit card holder presenting an accepted form of identification must be issued a cash advance over the counter at any bank which issues that type of credit card, even if the cardholder cannot give their PIN.\n"}
{"id": "6670070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6670070", "title": "Chaos theory in organizational development", "text": "Chaos theory in organizational development\n\nIn organizational development, chaos theory is a subset of more general chaos theory that incorporates principles of quantum mechanics and presents them in a complex systems environment. To the observer the systems seem to be in chaos. Organizational Development of a business system is the management of that apparent chaos. The term “Managing Organized Chaos” is used in the book by the same name Managing Organized Chaos – Business Planning 1.0, to describe the daily management of an entity (business) engaged in continual activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "29753610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29753610", "title": "Communities of innovation", "text": "Communities of innovation\n\nCommunities that support innovation have been referred to as Communities of Innovation (CoI), Communities for Innovation, Innovation Communities, Open Innovation Communities, Communities of Creation.\n\nCoakes and Smith (2007) define Communities of Innovation (CoI) as a form of Communities of Practice that are dedicated to the support of innovation. They suggest that CoI can be formed from champions of innovation and their social network and that CoI are safe places for the creation and support of innovatory ideas. COI are groups made up of motivated individuals working together towards a common goal, not because of orders from their superiors, but because they are convinced of their common cause.\n\nSawhney and Prandelli (2000) proposed the model of Communities of Creation as a new governance mechanism for managing knowledge found in different companies for the purpose of innovation. Intellectual property rights are considered to be owned by the entire community although the community is governed by a central firm which acts as the sponsor and defines the ground rules for participation. This model lies between the closed hierarchical model and the open market-based model.\n\nThese are Communities that take total financial, administrative and operational control over the development of their communities. Democratically elected and answerable to the whole community. It is simply an extension of the community saving societies that have existed for centuries. The prime objective is sustainable environmental and social development controlled by the skills and finance available. It provides employment, improves the future prospects for all participants and their children, and injects a sense of pride and achievement. Using locally available materials linked to new environmentally friendly cost effective construction materials will produce affordable housing, schools and roads.\n\nTraditionally, the company is the most efficient mean of managing knowledge belonging to different people. The primary motivation is job security, career advancement and recognition. Lee and Cole (2003) argue for a community structure for knowledge creation that crosses firms’ boundaries. To substantiate their argument they put forth the case of how “thousands of talented volunteers, dispersed across organizational and geographical boundaries, collaborate via the Internet to produce a knowledge-intensive, innovative product of high quality,” the Linux kernel (Lee and Cole 2003, p. 633). The Linux community has proved to be a very efficient mean of managing knowledge belonging to different people. The primary motivation is value system, recognition and potential career advancement or hop. Lee and Cole (2003) argue that research on knowledge management has to date focused on hierarchy and therefore has not adequately addressed the mobilization of distributed knowledge, knowledge that is dispersed among many people. They note that, as illustrated by the Linux case, “the advent of the Internet and Web-based technologies has enabled specialized communities to convene, interact, and share resources extensively via electronic interfaces,” even across firms’ boundaries (Lee and Cole 2003, p. 633). People are able to contribute effectively outside their working hours. coordination of the work (including feedback) is possible even when people are working from different locations. The catchment area is therefore much larger and the critical mass of software engineers required to develop and maintain the Linux project was therefore achievable.\n\nSuccessful COIs increase innovations within an organization. They therefore have the potential to contribute to organizational ambidexterity, which refers to the organization’s dual capabilities of managing current business and being flexible and adaptable to meet future changes and demands.\n\nGoogle search on “Communities of Innovation” generated 66100 findings on 24 June 2012.\n\n\nContrast with:\n\n"}
{"id": "52122325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52122325", "title": "Conduent", "text": "Conduent\n\nConduent Inc. is a technology-led business process services company headquartered in New Jersey. It was formed in 2017 as a divestiture from Xerox. The company offers digital platforms for businesses and governments. It has 93,000 employees in more than 40 countries.\n\nOn 30 June 2016, Xerox announced that it would be spinning off its Xerox Business Services division into a wholly separate corporation, for which the name was yet to be determined. The business scope of the new company was generally understood to be essentially identical to that of former business services company Affiliated Computer Services (ACS), which Xerox had acquired six years earlier in 2010.\n\nOn 6 October 2016, having previously announced its intent to separate into two separate companies, Xerox announced the identity of the new business services company as Conduent. It described the company's \"coined name\" as \"inspired by the company's expertise in managing transactional relationships between their clients and their constituents\". On its corporate blog, Conduent posted an article by chief marketing officer John Kennedy, who described the name as \"derived with inspiration from several places\". Kennedy wrote that when trying to summarize what the new company does, \"words like conduit, confluence and constituent come to mind.\" He wrote that the company considered nearly 6,000 possible names before choosing Conduent, which he described as \"a name that seemed perfect for our new BPO Company.\"\n\nOn 3 January 2017, Conduent formally came into existence following its separation from Xerox. At the end of the first quarter of 2017, Carl Icahn owned 9.7% of the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "3599079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3599079", "title": "Corporate promoter", "text": "Corporate promoter\n\nA corporate promoter is a firm or person who does the preliminary work incidental to the formation of a company, including its promotion, incorporation, and flotation, and solicits people to invest money in the company, usually when it is being formed. An investment banker, an underwriter, or a stock promoter may, wholly or in part, perform the role of a promoter. Promoters generally owe a duty of utmost good faith, so as to not mislead any potential investors, and disclose all material facts about the company's business.\n\nGenerally, promoters are in a fiduciary relationship with the company and its investors and shareholders, and must avoid conflicts of interests and exercise reasonable care in performing their duties. They must refrain from self-dealing or other types of abuse to take advantage of their position as a promoter. Self-dealing occurs, for example, when a promoter unfairly profits from the conduct of business with the company by charging higher prices for the goods they sell to the company than it would otherwise pay.\n\nA promoter can be a shareholder in the promoted company. If the promoter is the only shareholder, the company may, in compliance with the rule of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and similar rules in other jurisdictions, need to disclose the information prior to selling shares to the public.\n\nThe fiduciary duties of promoters include:\n\n\nIf a promoter fails to disclose the profits, made by him in the course of promotion or he knowingly makes a false statement in the prospectus, whereby the person relying on that statement, makes a loss, he will be liable to make good the loss, suffered by that other person. The promoter is liable for untrue statements, made in the prospectus.\n\nA person, who subscribes for any shares or debenture in a company on the faith of the untrue statement contained in the prospectus, can sue the promoter for the loss or damages, sustained by the subscriber as the result of such untrue statement.\n\nPromoters may be classified into the following types.\n\nThere are firms which specialise in company promotion, including its incorporation and flotation, before handing it over to the shareholders or their representatives for the company.\n\nThese promoters take interest in floating some companies. They are not engaged in promotion work on a regular basis. They take up the promotion of some company and once it is over they go to their original profession.For instance, engineers, lawyers etc. may float some companies.\n\nThey are both promoters and entrepreneurs. They conceive the idea of a new business unit, do the groundwork to establish it and may subsequently become a part of the management.\n\nSome financial institutions, like investment banks or industrial banks, may take up the promotion of a company with a view to finding opportunities for investment.\n\nThe functions of a promoter may include:\n\nThe first stage in company promotion is the generation of new ideas. It is the promoter who conceives the idea of setting up a business, and makes an assessment of the viability of a particular aspects business be it technical feasibility ,financial feasibility ,economic feasibility and also incorporation of company .\n\nPromoters undertakes a detailed investigation of the viability, profitability and future prospects of the growth of the proposed activity, and may seek the help of specialists such as lawyers, accountants, cost accountants, a company secretary, and engineers. Organisations engaged in market research and other specialised agencies. Specialists are in a position to make an objective analysis of their own areas which may help the promoters. Decisions have to be taken regarding the size, location, layout, manpower etc.\n\nIf the proposed endeavour gives promise of success and the promoter is willing to undertake the risk of forming the business, step must be taken to assemble various factors of production, such as land, labour, capital and managerial personnel. Assembly of resources involves making contracts for the purchase of these resources.promoters organise the resources to convert the idea into a reality by forming a company.\n\nThe promoter may enter into contracts with third parties in anticipation of the registration of a company; but after registration, the company must approve or confirm these contracts.\n\n"}
{"id": "39199983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39199983", "title": "Cumming Corporation", "text": "Cumming Corporation\n\nCumming Corporation is a privately held international project management and cost consulting firm with more than 620 employees, 37 offices and a focus on serving the Education, Healthcare, Themed Entertainment, and Hospitality sectors. In 2017, the firm generated an estimated $117 million in professional fees on more than $4 billion in construction.\n\nIn 1996, Finlay Cumming established Cumming LLC in Southern California. Between 2002 and 2006, Cumming opened new offices in Northern California, Colorado, Nevada, Florida, Arizona, Texas, and Georgia. Later in 2006, Cumming was named to Engineering News-Record’s listing of the Top 100 CM-for-Fee firm in the United States, and continues to receive the honor, ranking in the top 40 every year since.\n\nIn 2007, the firm officially incorporated as Cumming Corporation and a year later in 2008, Cumming acquired Construction Controls Group (CCG), a Los Angeles-based program and project/construction management business. Shortly after the acquisition of CCG, Cumming acquired Southern Management Group (SMG), a South Carolina-based firm with more than 20 years of experience in program and project/construction management. Later in 2008, after several years working abroad, Cumming established Cumming International and opened its first overseas office in Abu Dhabi. \nCumming currently has 37 offices across the U.S. and internationally with more than 620 employees. According to Engineering News-Record (ENR), Cumming has ranked among the top 40 construction management firms on its annual listing of the Top 100 CM-for-Fee Firms in the United States for the past six years.\n"}
{"id": "7500075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7500075", "title": "Customer intelligence", "text": "Customer intelligence\n\nCustomer intelligence (CI) is the process of gathering and analyzing information regarding customers, and their details and activities, to build deeper and more effective customer relationships and improve decision-making by vendors.\n\nCustomer intelligence is a key component of effective customer relationship management (CRM), and when effectively implemented it is a rich source of insight into the behaviour and experience of a company's customer base. \n\nAs an example, some customers walk into a store and walk out without buying anything. Information about these customers/prospects (or their visits) may not exist in a traditional CRM system, as no sales are entered on the store cash register. Although no commercial transaction took place, knowing \"why\" customers leave the store (perhaps by asking them, or a store employee, to complete a survey) and using this data to make inferences about customer behaviour, is an example of CI.\n\nCustomer Intelligence begins with reference data – basic key facts about the customer, such as their geographic location.\n\nThis data is then supplemented with transaction data – reports of customer activity. This can be commercial information (for example purchase history from sales and order processing), interactions from service contacts over the phone and via e-mail.\n\nA further subjective dimension can be added, in the form of customer satisfaction surveys or agent data. \n\nFinally, a company can use competitor insight and mystery shopping to get a better view of how their service benchmarks in the market.\n\nBy mining this data, and placing it in context with wider information about competitors, conditions in the industry, and general trends, information can be obtained about customers' existing and future needs, how they reach decisions, and predictions made about their future behavior.\n\nSpeech analytics – used to monitor telephone conversations taking place between companies and customers, using phonetic analysis or speech to text to find keywords and phrases, classify call types and identify trends. \n\nClick tracking – used to monitor the popularity and usage of corporate web sites, this data can provide clues to product interest and buying intention. For example, a company may infer a customer is interested in purchasing a particular service if they are spending time browsing specific product pages.\n\nCustomer relationship management – software solutions used for Salesforce.com, adeptcrmsales and to manage customer relationships which can store data on the quantity, type and category of customer and prospect contacts. \n\nFrontline data capture which may (or may not) form part of a CRM software solution, but which is used by front line agents to record more subjective data regarding customer contacts, such as the root cause of the customer picking up the phone (e.g. they received their bill) or their emotional state.\n\nCustomer satisfaction and market research surveys, often mined via text analytics, which can additionally be applied, for customer intelligence purposes, to contact center notes, e-mail, and other textual sources.\n\nCustomer intelligence provides a detailed understanding of the experience customers have in interacting with a company, and allows predictions to be made regarding reasons behind customer behaviors.\n\nThis knowledge can then be applied to support more effective and strategic decision making – for example, understanding why customers call makes it easier to predict (and plan to reduce) call volumes in a contact centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "32714470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32714470", "title": "Data monetization", "text": "Data monetization\n\nData monetization, a form of monetization, may refer to the act of generating measurable economic benefits from available data sources (analytics). Less commonly, it may also refer to the act of monetizing data services. In the case of analytics, typically, these benefits accrue as revenue or expense savings, but may also include market share or corporate market value gains. Data monetization leverages data generated through business operations, available exogenous data or content, as well as data associated with individual actors such as that collected via electronic devices and sensors participating in the internet of things. For example, the ubiquity of the internet of things is generating location data and other data from sensors and mobile devices at an ever-increasing rate. When this data is collated against traditional databases, the value and utility of both sources of data increases, leading to tremendous potential to mine data for social good, research and discovery, and achievement of business objectives. Closely associated with data monetization are the emerging data as a service models for transactions involving data by the data item.\n\nThere are three ethical and regulatory vectors involved in data monetization due to the sometimes conflicting interests of actors involved in the digital supply chain. The individual data creator who generates files and records through his own efforts or owns a device such as a sensor or a mobile phone that generates data has a claim to ownership of data. The business entity that generates data in the course of its operations, such as its transactions with financial institutions or risk factors discovered through feedback from customers also has a claim on data captured through their systems and platforms. However, the person that contributed the data may also have a legitimate claim on the data. Internet platforms and service providers, such as Google or Facebook that require a user to forgo some ownership interest in their data in exchange for use of the platform also have a legitimate claim on the data. Thus the practice of data monetization, although common since 2000, is now getting increasing attention from regulators. The European Union and the United States Congress have begun to address these issues. For instance, in the financial services industry, regulations involving data are included in the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act and Dodd-Frank. Some individual creators of data are shifting to using personal data vaults and implementing vendor relationship management concepts as a reflection of an increasing resistance to their data being federated or aggregated and resold without compensation. Groups such as the Personal Data Ecosystem Consortium, Patient privacy rights, and others are also challenging corporate cooptation of data without compensation.\n\nFinancial services companies are a relatively good example of an industry focused on generating revenue by leveraging data. Credit card issuers and retail banks use customer transaction data to improve targeting of cross-sell offers. Partners are increasingly promoting merchant based reward programs which leverage a bank’s data and provide discounts to customers at the same time.\n\n\n\n\nThere are a wide variety of industries, firms and business models related to data monetization. The following frameworks have been offered to help understand the types of business models that are used:\n\nRoger Ehrenberg of IA Ventures, a venture capital firm that invests in this sector, has defined three basic types of data product firms:\nSelvanathan and Zuk offer a framework that includes \"monetization methods that are outside the bounds of the traditional value capture systems employed by an enterprise... tuned to match the context and consumption models for the target customer.\" They offer examples of \"four distinct approaches: platforms, applications, data-as-a-service, and professional services.\"\n\n\nSome of the patents issued since 2010 by the USPTO for monetizing data generated by individuals include; 8,271,346, 8,612,307, 8,560,464, 8,510,176, and 7,860,760. These are usually in class 705 related to electronic commerce, data processing, and cost and price determination. Some of these patents use the term, the data supply chain to reflect emerging technology to federate and aggregate data in real time from many individuals and devices linked together through the internet of things. Another emerging term is information banking.\n\nAn unexplored but potentially disruptive arena for data monetization is the use of Bitcoin micropayments for data transactions. Because Bitcoins are emerging as competitors with payment services like Visa or PayPal that can readily enable and reduce or eliminate transaction costs, transactions for as little as a single data item can be facilitated. Consumers, as well as enterprises who desire to monetize their participation in a data supply chain, may soon be able to access social network enabled Bitcoin exchanges and platforms. Clickbait and data hijacking may wither as micropayments for data are ubiquitous and enabled. Potentially, even the current need to build out data broker managed data trading exchanges may be bypassed. Stanley Smith, who introduced the notion of the data supply chain, has said that simple micropayments for data monetization are the key to evolution of ubiquitous implementation of user configurable data supply schemata, enabling data monetization on a universal scale for all data creators, including the burgeoning internet of things.\n\n"}
{"id": "239863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239863", "title": "Distribution (marketing)", "text": "Distribution (marketing)\n\nDistribution (or place) is one of the four elements of the marketing mix. Distribution is the process of making a product or service available for the consumer or business user that needs it. This can be done directly by the producer or service provider, or using indirect channels with distributors or intermediaries. The other three elements of the marketing mix are product, pricing, and promotion.\n\nDecisions about distribution need to be taken in line with a company's overall strategic vision and mission. Developing a coherent distribution plan is a central component of strategic planning. At the strategic level, there are three broad approaches to distribution, namely mass, selective or exclusive distribution. The number and type of intermediaries selected largely depends on the strategic approach. The overall distribution channel should add value to the consumer.\n\nDistribution is fundamentally concerned with ensuring that products reach target customers in the most direct and cost efficient manner. In the case of services, distribution is principally concerned with access. Although distribution, as a concept, is relatively simple, in practice distribution management may involve a diverse range of activities and disciplines including: detailed logistics, transportation, warehousing, storage, inventory management as well as channel management including selection of channel members and rewarding distributors.\n\nPrior to designing a distribution system, the planner needs to determine what the distribution channel is to achieve in broad terms. The overall approach to distributing products or services depends on a number of factors including the type of product, especially perishability; the market served; the geographic scope of operations and the firm's overall mission and vision. The process of setting out a broad statement of the aims and objectives of a distribution channel is a strategic level decision.\n\nStrategically, there are three approaches to distribution:\n\n\n\nSummary of strategic approaches to distribution\n\nIn consumer markets, another key strategic level decision is whether to use a push or pull strategy. In a \"push strategy\", the marketer uses intensive advertising and incentives aimed at distributors, especially retailers and wholesalers, with the expectation that they will stock the product or brand, and that consumers will purchase it when they see it in stores. In contrast, in a \"pull strategy\", the marketer promotes the product directly to consumers hoping that they will pressure retailers to stock the product or brand, thereby pulling it through the distribution channel. The choice of a push or pull strategy has important implications for advertising and promotion. In a push strategy the promotional mix would consist of trade advertising and sales calls while the advertising media would normally be weighted towards trade magazines, exhibitions and trade shows while a pull strategy would make more extensive use consumer advertising and sales promotions while the media mix would be weighted towards mass-market media such as newspapers, magazines, television and radio.\n\nDistribution of products takes place by means of channels to become available on markets, in stores or in webshops. Channels are sets of interdependent organizers (called intermediaries or distributors) involved in making the product available for consumption to end-user. This is mostly accomplished through merchant retailers or wholesalers, or in international context by importers. In certain specialist markets, agents or brokers may become involved in distribution channel. \n\nTypical intermediaries involved in distribution include:\n\n\nA firm can design any number of channels they require to reach customers efficiently and effectively. Channels can be distinguished by the number of intermediaries between producer and consumer. If there are no intermediaries then this is known as a \"zero-level\" distribution system or direct marketing. A \"level one\" (sometimes called \"one-tier\") channel has a single intermediary. A \"level two\" (alternatively a \"two-tier\") channel has two intermediaries, and so on. This flow is typically represented as being manufacturer to retailer to consumer, but may involve other types of intermediaries. In practice, distribution systems for perishable goods tend to be shorter - direct or single intermediary, because of the need to reduce the time a product spends in transit or in storage. In other cases, distribution systems can become quite complex involving many levels and different types of intermediaries.\n\nIn practice, many organizations use a mix of different channels; a direct sales force may call on larger customers may be complemented with agents to cover smaller customers and prospects. When a single organisation uses a variety of different channels to reach its markets, this is known as a \"multi-channel\" distribution network. In addition, online retailing or e-commerce is leading to disintermediation, the removal of intermediaries from a supply chain. Retailing via smartphone or m-commerce is also a growth area.\n\nThe firm's marketing department needs to design the most suitable channels for the firm's products, then select appropriate channel members or intermediaries. An organisation may need to train staff of intermediaries and motivate the intermediary to sell the firm's products. The firm should monitor the channel's performance over time and modify the channel to enhance performance.\n\nTo motivate intermediaries the firm can use positive actions, such as offering higher margins to the intermediary, special deals, premiums and allowances for advertising or display. On the other hand, negative actions may be necessary, such as threatening to cut back on margin, or hold back delivery of product. Care must be exercised when considering negative actions as these may fall foul of regulations and can contribute to a public backlash and a public relations disaster.\n\nChannel conflict can arise when one intermediary's actions prevent another intermediary from achieving their objectives. Vertical channel conflict occurs between the levels within a channel, and horizontal channel conflict occurs between intermediaries at the same level within a channel. Channel conflict is a perennial problem. There are risks that a powerful channel member may coordinate the interests of the channel for personal gain.\n\nChannel-switching (not to be confused with zapping or channel surfing on TV) is the action of consumers switching from one type of channel intermediary to a different type of intermediary for their purchases. Examples include switching from brick-and-mortar stores to online catalogues and e-commerce providers; switching from grocery stores to convenience stores or switching from top tier department stores to mass market discount outlets. A number of factors have led to an increase in channel switching behaviour; the growth of e-commerce, the globalization of markets, the advent of Category killers (such as Officeworks and Kids 'R Us) as well as changes in the legal or statutory environment. For instance, in Australia and New Zealand, following a relaxation of laws prohibiting supermarkets from selling therapeutic goods, consumers are gradually switching away from pharmacies and towards supermarkets for the purchase of minor analgesics, cough and cold preparations and complementary medicines such as vitamins and herbal remedies.\n\nFor the consumer, channel switching offers a more diverse shopping experience. However, marketers need to be alert to channel switching because of its potential to erode market share. Evidence of channel switching can suggest that disruptive forces are at play, and that consumer behaviour is undergoing fundamental changes. A consumer may be prompted to switch channels when the product or service can be found at cheaper prices, when superior models become available, when a wider range is offered, or simply because it is more convenient to shop through a different channel (e.g. online or one-stop shopping). As a hedge against market share losses due to switching behaviour, some retailers engage in multi-channel retailing.\n\nThe emergence of a service-dominant logic perspective has focussed scholarly attention on how distribution networks serve to create customer value and to consider how value is co-created by all the players within the distribution chain, including the value created by customers themselves. This emphasis on value-creation is contributing to a change in terminology surrounding distribution processes; \"distribution networks\" are often termed \"value-chains\" while \"distribution centres\" are often termed \"customer fulfillment centres.\" For example, the retail giant Amazon, which utilises both direct online distribution alongside bricks and mortar stores, now calls its despatch centres \"customer fulfillment centres\". Although the term, \"customer fulfillment centre\" has been criticised on the grounds that it is a neologism, its use is becoming increasingly mainstream as it slowly makes its way into introductory marketing textbooks.\n\nDisintermediation occurs when manufacturers or service providers eliminate intermediaries from the distribution network and deal directly with purchasers. Disintermediation is found in industries where radically new types of channel intermediaries displace traditional distributors. The widespread public acceptance of online shopping has been a major trigger for disintermediation in some industries. Certain types of traditional intermediaries are dropping by the wayside.\n\n"}
{"id": "24150036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150036", "title": "Economic Times Awards", "text": "Economic Times Awards\n\nThe Economic Times Awards for Corporate Excellence (also referred as ET Awards) are the awards conferred by The Economic Times in the field of business, corporate and government policies, economies in India. It is an annual awards, conferred in various categories. Since 2017, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP (Deloitte) has been the title sponsor of the awards. The 2018 leg of the awards will be held on 22 November in Mumbai.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDeloitte was the title sponsor for the event, held on 28 October 2017 in Mumbai.\nET AWARDS FOR CORPORATE EXCELLENCE\nThe Economic Times Awards for Corporate Excellence\n\n\nThe Economic Times Awards for Corporate Excellence\nThe 2018 leg of the awards will be held on 17 November 2018 in Mumbai. Deloitte continues to be the title sponsor of the event.\n\nThe jury for the awards met on 4 September 2018 in Mumbai. It comprised:\n\nThe jury members also participated in a panel discussion on the topic, “Spurring equitable growth: role of government, technology, and business”. They were joined in the panel discussion by N. Venkatram, Managing Partner and CEO, Deloitte India.\n\n2018 award winners:\n\n"}
{"id": "264466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264466", "title": "Electronic business", "text": "Electronic business\n\nOnline Business or e-business is any kind of business or commercial transaction that includes sharing information across the internet. Commerce constitutes the exchange of products and services between businesses, groups and individuals and can be seen as one of the essential activities of any business. Electronic commerce focuses on the use of ICT to enable the external activities and relationships of the business with individuals, groups and other businesses, while e-business refers to business with help of the internet. The term \"e-business\" was coined by IBM's marketing and Internet team in 1996.\n\nIn 1994, IBM, with its agency Ogilvy & Mather, began to use its foundation in IT solutions and expertise to market itself as a leader of conducting business on the Internet through the term \"e-business.\" Then CEO Louis V. Gerstner, Jr. was prepared to invest $1 billion to market this new brand.\n\nAfter conducting worldwide market research in October 1997, IBM began with an eight-page piece in the \"Wall Street Journal\" that would introduce the concept of \"e-business\" and advertise IBM's expertise in the new field. IBM decided \"not\" to trademark the term \"e-business\" in the hopes that other companies would use the term and create an entire new industry. However, this proved to be too successful and by 2000, to differentiate itself, IBM launched a $300 million campaign about its \"e-business infrastructure\" capabilities. Since that time, the terms, \"e-business\" and \"e-commerce\" have been loosely interchangeable and have become a part of the common vernacular.\n\nWhen organizations go online, they have to decide which e-business models best suit their goals. A business model is defined as the organization of product, service and information flows, and the source of revenues and benefits for suppliers and customers. The concept of e-business model is the same but used in the online presence.\n\nA key component of the business model is the revenue model or profit model, which is a framework for generating revenues. It identifies which revenue source to pursue, what value to offer, how to price the value, and who pays for the value. It is a key component of a company's business model. It primarily identifies what product or service will be created in order to generate revenues and the ways in which the product or service will be sold.\n\nWithout a well defined revenue model, that is, a clear plan of how to generate revenues, new businesses will more likely struggle due to costs which they will not be able to sustain. By having a clear revenue model, a business can focus on a target audience, fund development plans for a product or service, establish marketing plans, begin a line of credit and raise capital.\n\nE-commerce (short for \"electronic commerce\") is trading in products or services using computer networks, such as the Internet. Electronic commerce draws on technologies such as mobile commerce, electronic funds transfer, supply chain management, Internet marketing, online transaction processing, electronic data interchange (EDI), inventory management systems, and automated data collection. Modern electronic commerce typically uses the World Wide Web for at least one part of the transaction's life cycle, although it may also use other technologies such as e-mail.\n\nWhile much has been written of the economic advantages of Internet-enabled commerce, there is also evidence that some aspects of the internet such as maps and location-aware services may serve to reinforce economic inequality and the digital divide. Electronic commerce may be responsible for consolidation and the decline of mom-and-pop, brick and mortar businesses resulting in increases in income inequality. Author Andrew Keen, a long-time critic of the social transformations caused by the Internet, has recently focused on the economic effects of consolidation from Internet businesses, since these businesses employ much fewer people per dollar of sales than traditional retailers.\n\nE-business systems naturally have greater security risks than traditional business systems, therefore it is important for e-business systems to be fully protected against these risks. A far greater number of people have access to e-businesses through the internet than would have access to a traditional business. Customers, suppliers, employees, and numerous other people use any particular e-business system daily and expect their confidential information to stay secure. Hackers are one of the great threats to the security of e-businesses. Some common security concerns for e-Businesses include keeping business and customer information private and confidential, authenticity of data, and data integrity. Some of the methods of protecting e-business security and keeping information secure include physical security measures as well as data storage, data transmission, anti-virus software, firewalls, and encryption to list a few.\n\nConfidentiality is the extent to which businesses makes personal information available to other businesses and individuals. With any business, confidential information must remain secure and only be accessible to the intended recipient. However, this becomes even more difficult when dealing with e-businesses specifically. To keep such information secure means protecting any electronic records and files from unauthorized access, as well as ensuring safe transmission and data storage of such information. Tools such as encryption and firewalls manage this specific concern within e-business.\n\nE-business transactions pose greater challenges for establishing authenticity due to the ease with which electronic information may be altered and copied. Both parties in an e-business transaction want to have the assurance that the other party is who they claim to be, especially when a customer places an order and then submits a payment electronically. One common way to ensure this is to limit access to a network or trusted parties by using a virtual private network (VPN) technology. The establishment of authenticity is even greater when a combination of techniques are used, and such techniques involve checking \"something you know\" (i.e. password or PIN), \"something you need\" (i.e. credit card), or \"something you are\" (i.e. digital signatures or voice recognition methods). Many times in e-business, however, \"something you are\" is pretty strongly verified by checking the purchaser's \"something you have\" (i.e. credit card) and \"something you know\" (i.e. card number).\n\nData integrity answers the question \"Can the information be changed or corrupted in any way?\" This leads to the assurance that the message received is identical to the message sent. A business needs to be confident that data is not changed in transit, whether deliberately or by accident. To help with data integrity, firewalls protect stored data against unauthorized access, while simply backing up data allows recovery should the data or equipment be damaged.\n\nThis concern deals with the existence of proof in a transaction. A business must have assurance that the receiving party or purchaser cannot deny that a transaction has occurred, and this means having sufficient evidence to prove the transaction. One way to address non-repudiation is using digital signatures. A digital signature not only ensures that a message or document has been electronically signed by the person, but since a digital signature can only be created by one person, it also ensures that this person cannot later deny that they provided their signature.\n\nWhen certain electronic resources and information is limited to only a few authorized individuals, a business and its customers must have the assurance that no one else can access the systems or information. There are a variety of techniques to address this concern including firewalls, access privileges, user identification and authentication techniques (such as passwords and digital certificates), Virtual Private Networks (VPN), and much more.\n\nThis concern is specifically pertinent to a business' customers as certain information must be available when customers need it. Messages must be delivered in a reliable and timely fashion, and information must be stored and retrieved as required. Because availability of service is important for all e-business websites, steps must be taken to prevent disruption of service by events such as power outages and damage to physical infrastructure. Examples to address this include data backup, fire-suppression systems, Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) systems, virus protection, as well as making sure that there is sufficient capacity to handle the demands posed by heavy network traffic.\n\nThe business internet which supports e-business has a cost to maintain of about $2 trillion in outsourced IT dollars just in the United States alone. With each website custom crafted and maintained in code, the maintenance burden is enormous. In the twenty-first century, look for new businesses that will help standardize the look and feel of the internet presence of a business to be more uniform in nature to help reduce the cost of maintenance.\n\nWhen it comes to security solutions, sustainable electronic business requires support for data integrity, strong authentication, and privacy.\n\nThere are several different ways to prevent access to the data that is kept online. One way is to use anti-virus software. This is something that most people use to protect their networks regardless of the data they have. E-businesses should use this because they can then be sure that the information sent and received to their system is clean.\nA second way to protect the data is to use firewalls and network protection. A firewall is used to restrict access to private networks, as well as public networks that a company may use. The firewall also has the ability to log attempts into the network and provide warnings as it is happening. They are very beneficial to keep third-parties out of the network. Businesses that use Wi-Fi need to consider different forms of protection because these networks are easier for someone to access. They should look into protected access, virtual private networks, or internet protocol security.\nAnother option they have is an intrusion detection system. This system alerts when there are possible intrusions. Some companies set up traps or \"hot spots\" to attract people and are then able to know when someone is trying to hack into that area.\n\nEncryption, which is actually a part of cryptography, involves transforming texts or messages into a code which is unreadable. These messages have to be decrypted in order to be understandable or usable for someone. There is a key that identifies the data to a certain person or company. With public key encryption, there are actually two keys used. One is public and one is private. The public one is used for encryption, and the private for decryption. The level of the actual encryption can be adjusted and should be based on the information. The key can be just a simple slide of letters or a completely random mix-up of letters. This is relatively easy to implement because there is software that a company can purchase. A company needs to be sure that their keys are registered with a certificate authority.\n\nThe point of a digital certificate is to identify the owner of a document. This way the receiver knows that it is an authentic document. Companies can use these certificates in several different ways. They can be used as a replacement for user names and passwords. Each employee can be given these to access the documents that they need from wherever they are.\nThese certificates also use encryption. They are a little more complicated than normal encryption however. They actually used important information within the code. They do this in order to assure authenticity of the documents as well as confidentiality and data integrity which always accompany encryption.\nDigital certificates are not commonly used because they are confusing for people to implement. There can be complications when using different browsers, which means they need to use multiple certificates. The process is being adjusted so that it is easier to use.\n\nA final way to secure information online would be to use a digital signature. If a document has a digital signature on it, no one else is able to edit the information without being detected. That way if it is edited, it may be adjusted for reliability after the fact. In order to use a digital signature, one must use a combination of cryptography and a message digest. A message digest is used to give the document a unique value. That value is then encrypted with the sender's private key.\n\n"}
{"id": "7674023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7674023", "title": "Employee monitoring software", "text": "Employee monitoring software\n\nEmployee monitoring software is a means of employee monitoring, and allows company administrators to monitor and supervise all their employee computers from a central location. It is normally deployed over a business network and allows for easy centralized log viewing via one central networked PC. Sometimes, companies opt to monitor their employees using remote desktop software instead.\n\nEmployee monitoring software is used to supervise employees' performance, prevent illegal activities, avoid confidential info leakage, catch insider threats. Nowadays employee monitoring software is widely used in technology companies.\n\nAn employee monitoring program can monitor almost everything on a computer, such as keystrokes and passwords inputted, websites visited, chats in Facebook Messenger, Skype and other social chats. A piece of monitoring software can also capture screenshots of mobile activities. The administrator can view the logs through a cloud panel, or receive the logs by email.\n\nIt may be better to inform employees in advance if the administrator plans to use employee monitoring software on employees' computers. In this way, employees may behave themselves well and try not to make mistakes. In this case, employees can increase their efficiency and create more value for the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "8285969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8285969", "title": "Entrepreneur in Residence", "text": "Entrepreneur in Residence\n\nEntrepreneur in Residence or Executive in Residence is a kind of position in venture capital firms, law firms or business schools that is usually temporary and not formal. This is when an institution brings in an entrepreneur, who is usually in the process of starting or expanding his/her new company.\n\nIn a Venture Capital firm the entrepreneur is funded to work with some of the investment team of the company as well as being exposed to business-building processes, where he/she can assist the firm with any existing portfolio. In addition he/she is expected to help the company evaluate new potential investments, especially if it is an area of the E.I.R's experience. \nOn the other hand, the company usually benefits from this by getting significant access to the new company started by the E.I.R. This is due to the fact that the company gets to, usually, be the first investor in E.I.R's new company, giving them a chance to influence some company decisions.\n\nIn a law firm scenario, the entrepreneur is expected to provide services to the firm’s clients who are also involved in entrepreneur activity. \nFor a firm having an entrepreneur who can interact with other entrepreneurs and advise them is a way of gaining client trust by helping them with business decisions and networks.\nIn addition Law firms can also have the previous E.I.Rs as their clients once they start up their company. This is an easy and accessible clientele with whom the companies had previous relationships. \nThis is a very beneficial relationship for the E.I.R, who will develop relationships with several other entrepreneurs, that could be potential partners in the future. The E.I.R gets a chance to show his/her knowledge and understanding to the law firm's client and will develop further relationships with any partners of the client's partner as well.\nWhile in a Business school, an E.I.R is expected to provide guidance to business students who are intending to go through the same path as those who are helping them. The type of nurturing an E.I.R can provide to a \nbusiness school environment helps students, professors or whoever wishes to start a business within the institution environment. The E.I.R helps them develop ideas, organize them and follow the right path towards making these ideas reality.\nE.I.Rs are usually interested in these types of opportunities for several reasons, including expanding their own CV through teaching and influence as well as developing relationships with future business owners who could be future partners of the E.I.R.\n\n"}
{"id": "26393818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26393818", "title": "European Parliament of Enterprises", "text": "European Parliament of Enterprises\n\nThe European Parliament of Enterprises (EPE) is an event for European corporations, organized by Eurochambres, the Association of European Chambers of Commerce and Industry, once every two years. The first edition of the event was launched on 14 October 2008 on the occasion of Eurochambres' fiftieth anniversary.\n\nThe concept of the European Parliament of Enterprises originated from the consideration, that there is a democratic gap between the European institutions and the main actors of economic growth, entrepreneurs and that, consequently, European legislators do not sufficiently take into account entrepreneurs' concerns. \nOn the other hand, businesses are largely unfamiliar with the role and functioning of the European Union and the significance that the institutions’ decisions can have on their activities and results.\n\n751 entrepreneurs, or Members of the European Parliament of Enterprises (MEPEs), gather in the symbolic location of the Hemicycle of the European Parliament. The composition of the EPE reflects the number of Members of the European Parliament per member state.\n\nThe EPE aims to bring businesses and institutions face-to-face for one day so as to enhance mutual understanding. The EPE represents a unique opportunity for businesses to have a direct debate with high European representatives and to provide them with a direct bottom-up feedback on EU policy related issues.\n\nDuring the EPE, Members of the European Parliament of Enterprises exercise their voting rights on major EU business-related issues.\nThe results of the votes are presented by Eurochambres to the relevant political interlocutors from all of the EU institutions as \"the voice of European businesses”.\nThe \"European Parliament of Enterprises” is organised with the active cooperation of Eurochambres' members, the national associations of Chambers of Commerce & Industry.\n\nOn one of the resolution adopted by the EPE related to the European patent system - Europolitics (25/03/2009) .\nFrench Presidency of the Council of the EU (14/10/2008) - The first European Parliament of Enterprises .\n\n"}
{"id": "18515583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18515583", "title": "Event management software", "text": "Event management software\n\nEvent management software is the generic term for a wide range of software products that are used in the management of professional and academic conferences, trade exhibitions, conventions and smaller events such as Continuing Professional Development (CPD) meetings.\n\nThe most common event management applications are:\n"}
{"id": "28544576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28544576", "title": "Eyeball Chat", "text": "Eyeball Chat\n\nEyeball Chat is a proprietary freeware VoIP, video telephony soft phone with multiple-protocol instant messaging for Windows PCs, produced by Eyeball Networks in Vancouver, and first released in 2000. The software is free for personal use.\n\nEyeball Chat allows text message exchanges with individuals or conferences, and with AIM, Google Talk, MSN Messenger and Yahoo! Messenger buddies, drag-and-drop file and photo sharing, free voice calls between PCs and (via SIP gateway) from PCs to phones, video chat and video conferencing with up to 5 people, picture-in-picture, still snapshots during video calls, custom avatars, and chat rooms with privacy options. Call management includes call blocking, call hold/un-hold, call transfer, and call forwarding, and standards-based communication protocols SIP and STUN, TURN, and ICE support traversal of NAT routers as well as HTTP tunneling and UPnP. Presence is supported with XMPP and SIMPLE.\n\nAt its introduction in October 2000, features of the software included \"proprietary media delivery technology\", a contact list to monitor online and offline status and to enable a one-click video chat session, control of picture size, frame rate, and audio performance, and other \"media quality attributes\". Services available for a paid subscription were to include \"multi-party video conferencing -- up to six people, video messaging -- record, send, and play video messages, and web-based access -- initiate video chat session and view video messages from any browser.\" At the time, Eyeball Networks stated that it intended \"to charge fees for certain types of use of the Eyeball Chat System, and for the use of some of the features of the system\" but in 2009, this was replaced by a requirement that large institutional users should buy one of the company's \"enterprise products and/or solutions.\"\n\nUpon its release, the software was described in the \"Washington Post\" as \"the first Web video chat service I've tested that seems easy to use\" and \"similar to videoconferencing programs from Microsoft and other companies, but simpler, and it provides high-quality images.\"\n\nBeta version 0.9 of Eyeball Chat LE was reviewed in \"Internet Telephony Magazine\", which stated, \"the video and audio quality can be very good, especially with a first-rate camera. The settings are very customizable, and its floating interface has its pluses. For these reasons, and especially for the multi-party conferencing abilities\", the software received the Editor's Choice award. It received a \"Communications ASP Magazine\" 2000 \"Product of the Year\" award, and a variety of other accolades.\n\nVersion 1.1 incorporated text messaging and window docking; version 1.21 (April 2001) incorporated better video capture and firewall support, call blocking, improved text messaging and web integration. The \"PC Magazine\" May 2001 review of Eyeball Chat LE v1.21 approved of the product's \"breadth of control\", including image resizing, automatic or manual frame rate and quality adjustments, and its management features for call blocking, information privacy, and text chatting or video answering of calls. On the other hand, it was \"not quite ready for prime time\" because Internet congestion resulted in video and audio degradation, required multiple connection attempts, and the audio lag required speaking \"at a deliberate pace, punctuated by pauses\". Overall, \"Eyeball chat should be graded on a curve\", and it was deemed \"pretty neat.\"\n\nIn 2002, with version 2.0, Eyeball Chat chatrooms migrated from the web into the application, requiring web login only for user profile editing. Video message recording and sending were added, as was IM with AIM, MSN Messenger, and Yahoo! Messenger, and improved contact management and privacy settings.\n\nIn its 2002 review, \"ZDNet UK\" gave Eyeball Chat 2.0 a score of 5.6 (out of 10). The program's connectivity to AIM, MSN, and Yahoo for sending recorded video messages, real-time video with other Eyeball users, and its installation simplicity were all listed as \"pros\", but its \"hyped-to-the-hilt video-message delivery service\"'s inability to interoperate from behind a firewall, lack of ICQ support, no private chat rooms, and \"nearly nonexistent\" technical support were listed as \"cons\". It worked \"like a charm\" with other Eyeball Chat users. The review summarized, \"Eyeball Chat 2.0 promises more than it can deliver. For now, Trillian is a better interoperable messenger, since that client handles ICQ too. For video chat, turn to Yahoo Messenger; if you have Windows XP, go for Windows Messenger.\" \n\nVersion 2.1 of the software addressed some criticisms by improving firewall support for live video chat and video messaging, and \"video adaptation\", and version 2.2 (August 2002) improved frame rates and audio, support for AIM, MSN, and Yahoo!, improved firewall support, and added new chat rooms. In its August 2002 review, \"USA Today\" gave the program 3 out of 4 stars, noting that its video and audio quality was \"snappier and sonically cleaner than the competition until Yahoo upgraded its product last week\", but, without high-speed Internet connection, video was \"virtually unwatchable.\"\n\nEyeball Chat version 2.2 was released June 5, 2002.\nIn 2009, Eyeball Chat 3.0 was released with a redesigned interface, and provides PC-to-phone capabilities.\n\nIn its May 2011 review of Eyeball Chat 3.1, BSTDownload.com gave the software 4.5/5 stars, stating that it can \"import buddies from other services like Google Talk, Yahoo Messenger and MSN\", \"supports drag-and-drop file sharing and video conferencing (5 simultaneous users maximum),\" has picture-in-picture, and snapshots during video chat, can make audio-only PC to PC calls, has an \"embedded address book,\" and supports custom avatars. Detailed scores for resource usage: 29/35, ease of use: 19/20, look and feel: 9/10, and for functionality: 32/35.\n\nIn 2011, version 3.2 was announced. The French \"Tom's Guide\" made note of the software's emphasis on video (as opposed to Windows Live Messenger) and the integration of phone list with contact list, and referred to the video and audio quality as \"fluid and fast\". \nThe Dutch \"Personal Computer Magazine\" gave the software 2.5 (of 5) stars, called its microphone operation \"slow\" and the process of adding a contact \"clumsy\", disliked that the incoming call window is not automatically moved to the front of other windows, and that since Eyeball Chat does not use invitations (like Skype), it's not possible to see who is adding you to their contacts list.\n\nEyeball Networks states that as of 2009, Eyeball Chat has over 7 million registered users.\n\nOn 13 May 2014, Eyeball Chat closed its chatrooms to all users, stating in the client software advert panel that this is \"due to abuse of the system\" although the client remains active and the remaining users can still communicate through private messaging, including voice and video chat. Constant attacks, exploits and third-party malicious clients have plagued Eyeballchat since version 2.2. New users remain able to sign up and download the client software.\n\nEyeball Chat Server enables high-volume private-network use of Eyeball Chat at large institutions. Version 1.0 of the product won an Internet World 2001 \"Best of the Internet\" award in the Communication and Collaboration category,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8399656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8399656", "title": "For-profit corporation", "text": "For-profit corporation\n\nA for-profit corporation is an organization which aims to earn profit through its operations and is concerned with its own interests, unlike those of the public (non-profit corporation).\n\nA for-profit corporation is usually an organization operating in the private sector which sets aims that eventually help the organization itself.\nThis kind of a company makes shares of ownership available to the general public. The purchasers of those shares then become the company's shareholders; shareholders have bought a portion of ownership of the corporation by giving away certain amount of money (differentiating from company to company) or assets of a particular value. Such organizations are usually not aided by the government as they are working for private financial gains, unlike a non-profit organization, which exists to serve a mission. The nature of a for-profit corporation is such that it is required to pay applicable taxes and register with the state. Any donation which they receive will also be subject to the tax policies of the concerned country. As these organizations are all corporations and have a separate identity from their owners the owners are not in their personal capacity required to satisfy any debts which the company might owe to anyone.\n\nUnlike non-profit organizations the policies of these organizations are usually profit oriented. Managers(corporate employees) here have a profit oriented mindset and aim at maximising the revenue of the firm which in turn contributes to the dividends (in case of public limited) or profits of the shareholders/owners. Their aim can be accompanied by a goal of serving the society however that usually happens in cases of B-corporations.\n\nA for-profit corporation generally does mean an organization seeking profit however it has both modern forms and is also close to some other types of organizations as seen below.\n\nA modern form of profit corporations exists in the form of B-Corporations. A number of for-profit corporations have opted to gain this status. Most organisations get this certificate in order to show their concern for the society.\nA benefit corporation does aim to gain profit but also believes in playing a role for the society in terms of considering the environment or the society when crafting its policies.\nTheir status is actually issued by a non-profit organization called B-Labs. They are accepted as legal entities in several states of the United States and legislations have been passed to ensure their legal status.\n\nA for-profit corporation can also be seen in context of a limited liability company as both of them have a very similar function. Both of them are common in a way as stakeholders in a for-profit corporation are called shareholders whereas a person who has stakes in a Limited Liability Company is referred to as a member. Subsequently, while corporations have a very defined hierarchy from corporate employees to board members.\n\nAs these organizations aim to maximise profit they can be very healthy in an economy as the more they earn the greater is the amount they pay in taxes. That tax is eventually spent back on the people. Such corporations \nhave the capacity to grow at a very fast rate and this eventually leads them to employing more people(lowering the employment burden on the government). Their profit maximisation motive also means that they will work on their productivity and will contribute to the GDP of any country they are living in. A higher GDP often leads to a higher living standard.\n\nAs the corporation only works for its own interest it gets the opportunity to isolate itself from all worldly matters and do what is best for itself. Here the grip of the owners can also be greater on the business as they have the free choice of making investments and decisions which will generate the greatest revenue for their business. Here they would not be obliged to consider any outer factor(welfare) while designing policies. More profit also means that they can invest the profit back to the business and increase its speed of growth.\n\nThe major distinction between these two organizations can be derived from their names as a non-profit organization does not seek any profit, does not pay any taxes as it works for the welfare of the society and reinvests any surpluses earned back to the business. In contrast a for-profit corporation has no legal duty/obligation of working for the welfare of anyone but itself. This is the reason why a for-profit organization is not exempted any tax. Subsequently, at times running a not-for-profit corporation can be more difficult. Although both for and not-for-profit need a good decision making body however the aspect of serving the public puts an extra responsibility on the members of the board.\n\nAll for profit corporations in the United States fall under the jurisdiction of the Corporations Tax Act 2009. These companies are considered to be active for corporation tax purposes. This includes these corporations as they are trading or offering services(charged) to others, investing and are also dealing with the inflow and outflow of income. Similarly the owners can also not be taken to the courts for some wrong committed by the company. The company can be represented by a lawyer in a court of law. However like any other corporation it can not represent itself in a court.\n"}
{"id": "17115235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17115235", "title": "GSBA Zurich", "text": "GSBA Zurich\n\nThe Graduate School of Business Administration Zurich (GSBA Zurich) is the oldest and largest business school in German-speaking Europe.\n\nThe school was founded in 1968 as \"Oekreal Management Zentrum\" offering Swiss professional degrees.\n\nIt was an international Business School (accredited by EDUQUA) at lakeside Zurich, Switzerland. In July 2009 Peter Lorange, former IMD president, bought GSBA Zurich.\n\nGSBA offers master of Science Programs in Marketing, HRM, Finance, MIS/IT, OM/Logistics, two Bachelor Programs like BBA and BSC as well as an international PhD Program. All of those programs are part-time for working executives.\n\nThe school also offers a World Executive MBA being the first academic alliance in Business administration offering management modules in fundamental disciplines of business administration on five continents in Brazil, South Africa, India, Russia and Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "15516115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15516115", "title": "Geo-replication", "text": "Geo-replication\n\nGeo-replication systems are designed to improve the distribution of data across geographically distributed data networks. This is intended to improve the response time for applications such as web portals. Geo-replication can be achieved using software, hardware or a combination of the two. \n\nGeo-replication software is a network performance-enhancing technology that is designed to provide improved access to portal or intranet content for uses at the most remote parts of large organizations. It is based on the principle of storing complete replicas of portal content on local servers, and then keeping the content on those servers up-to-date using heavily compressed data updates.\n\nGeo-replication technologies are used to provide replication of the content of portals, intranets, web applications, content and data between servers, across wide area networks WAN to allow users at remote sites to access central content at LAN speeds. \n\nGeo-replication software can improve the performance of data networks that suffer limited bandwidth, latency and periodic disconnection. Terabytes of data can be replicated over a wide area network, giving remote sites faster access to web applications.\n\nGeo-replication software uses a combination of data compression and content caching technologies. differencing technologies can also be employed to reduce the volume of data that has to be transmitted to keep portal content accurate across all servers. This update compression can reduce the load that portal traffic place on networks, and improve the response time of a portal.\n\nRemote users of web portals and collaboration environments will frequently experience network bandwidth and latency problems which will slow down their experience of opening and closing files, and otherwise interacting with the portal. Geo-replication technology is deployed to accelerate the remote end user portal performance to be equivalent to that experienced by users locally accessing the portal in the central office.\n\nTo deliver this reduction in the size of the required data updates across a portal, geo-replication systems often use differencing engine technologies. These systems are able to difference the content of each portal server right down to the byte level. This knowledge of the content that is already on each server enables the system to rebuild any changes to the content on one server, across each of the other servers in the deployment from content already hosted on those other servers. This type of differencing system ensures that no content, at the byte level, is ever sent to a server twice.\n\nGeo-replication systems are often extended to deliver local replication beyond the server and down to the laptop used by a single user. Server to laptop replication enables mobile users to have access to a local replica of their business portal on a standard laptop. This technology may be employed to provide in the field access to portal content by, for example, sales forces and combat forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3828266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3828266", "title": "Google Founders' Award", "text": "Google Founders' Award\n\nThe Google Founders' Award was a special award for entrepreneurial achievement awarded to groups at Google Inc. \n\nThe awards are given in the form of stock grants, and the program was initiated in 2004 by Google founders Sergey Brin and Lawrence E. Page to reward groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "30727442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30727442", "title": "HP Application Lifecycle Management", "text": "HP Application Lifecycle Management\n\nHP Application Lifecycle Management (HP ALM) is a set of software tools developed and marketed by Micro Focus for application development and testing. It includes tools for requirements management, test planning and functional testing, performance testing (when used with HP Performance Center), developer management (through integration with the most widely used developer environments such as Collabnet, TeamForge and Microsoft Visual Studio), and defect management.\n\nALM is designed to support key stakeholders responsible for delivering applications as they progress through their lifecycle. It is a combination of a common platform, several key applications and a dashboard targeted at managing the core lifecycle of applications, from design through readiness for delivery to operations. All of these core lifecycle activities are connected together from a workflow perspective with a common management console, layer of project tracking and planning and built on a common software foundation containing a consistent repository and open integration architecture with a supported SDK.\n\nALM is intended to provide Information Technology departments with a centralized application management platform for managing and automating within and across application teams and throughout the complete process of developing an application, within a single workflow. HP offers a number of consulting services to support ALM. \n\nALM provides project planning and tracking so application development solutions teams can define, track, measure, and report on project milestones and key performance indicators.\n\nALM delivers real-time traceability of requirements and defects. QA department can significantly benefit from this traceability to get on-time reports and have visibility into the system under development \n\nHP lab management capability allows testing teams to provision and deploy a test lab themselves in a hybrid delivery environment (bare-metal or virtual, in-house or in the cloud) through integration of HP ALM with HP Continuous Delivery Automation (CDA).\n\nALM supports sharable asset libraries that can be reused across projects while maintaining traceability. Specific changes can be applied to shared assets for each project while maintaining library integrity, and projects can re-synch with the library as needed. Cross-project defect collaboration is also supported.\n\nALM provides cross-project reporting and pre-configured business views for reports such as aggregated project status metrics, application quality metrics, requirements coverage, and defect trends for both an enterprise release and individual projects.\n\nHP Enterprise Collaboration uses social media for application development teams to communicate without leaving the HP ALM environment. Users can import relevant objects (defects, incidents, reports) for participants to review and comment on.\n\nPerformance Center software is an enterprise-class performance testing platform and framework. The solution is used by IT departments to standardize, centralize and conduct performance testing, as well as reuse previous test cases. Performance Center finds software code flaws across the lifecycle of applications. Built on HP LoadRunner software, HP Performance Center supports developer testing and integrates with HP ALM.\n\nALM includes quality assurance features for risk-based test planning and management, version control, baselining, quality release and cycle management, test scheduling and execution, integrated manual testing and defect management.\n\nHP Quality Center is a quality management platform that can be used for a single project or across multiple IT projects to manage application quality across the entire application lifecycle. The solution provides requirements management, release and cycle management, test management, defect management and reporting from a single platform.\n\nALM is used by IT departments to capture, manage and track requirements throughout the application development and testing cycle.\n\nFortify security software, from Fortify Software, provides application security software, including both dynamic web application security testing and static code analysis. HP Fortify security software integrates with ALM secure application delivery.\n\nALM can be installed on-site or delivered through the cloud in a [Software as a Service] (SaaS) model. HP ALM is also available for mobile device support, including Apple iPhone and Android mobile devices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14613993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14613993", "title": "Huaqiangbei", "text": "Huaqiangbei\n\nHuaqiangbei () is an area and subdistrict of Futian, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China. The area's status as a major electronics manufacturing hub, and sprawling electronics marketplaces have earned it (and Shenzhen) occidental nicknames such as \"China's Silicon Valley\", and the \"Silicon Valley of Hardware\".\n\nThe subdistrict runs from Shennan Road at SEG Plaza near Huaqiang Road Station of the Shenzhen Metro for north to the Pavilion Hotel.\nIt is at the spine of a shopping district, with cross streets Zhenzhong Road (), Zhenhua Road () and Zhenxing Road (). Huafa Road () is immediately parallel to the east with Yannan Road () further away. The central area of the district is along Huaqiang Road (), a busy pedestrian street which the district is named after.\n\nThe area is characterized by tree-lined streets with wide () footpaths. Huaqiangbei is famous for its variety of electronics and clothing shops, though it has a notorious history of selling counterfeit and smuggled goods.\n\nThere are three Shenzhen Metro stations in the area: \n\n"}
{"id": "38781483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38781483", "title": "Ince Park", "text": "Ince Park\n\nInce Park is a resource recovery facility being developed by Peel Group near Ince, Cheshire.\n\nIt will be the largest such facility in the UK. Ince Park will be utilized by taking waste and transforming it into energy. It is a facility dedicated to waste management and environmental technologies. It is located on the south bank of the Manchester Ship Canal. It is 126 acre site that has road and rail access and it can accommodate ships into the canal. It is being developed by a joint venture partnership by Peel Environmental and Covanta Energy. This park will possibly generate over 110 megawatts of renewable and low cost energy. The main concept of Ince Park is to perceive waste as a greener and more sustainable resource for energy rather than a costly issue that needs to be dealt with. It will also provide careers in the areas of waste, manufacturing, engineering, power generation, warehousing, supply chain, and logistics. Ince Park has received approval with the planning and will be the centre of Eco Park. It will be able to provide about 16 percent of the North West's renewable energy.\n"}
{"id": "3568755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3568755", "title": "Incident management", "text": "Incident management\n\nAn incident is an event that could lead to loss of, or disruption to, an organization's operations, services or functions. Incident management (IcM) is a term describing the activities of an organization to identify, analyze, and correct hazards to prevent a future re-occurrence. These incidents within a structured organization are normally dealt with by either an incident response team (IRT), an incident management team (IMT), or Incident Command System (ICS). Without effective incident management, an incident can disrupt business operations, information security, IT systems, employees, customers, or other vital business functions.\n\nAn incident is an event that could lead to loss of, or disruption to, an organization's operations, services or functions. Incident management (IcM) is a term describing the activities of an organization to identify, analyze, and correct hazards to prevent a future re-occurrence. If not managed, an incident can escalate into an emergency, crisis or a disaster. Incident management is therefore the process of limiting the potential disruption caused by such an event, followed by a return to business as usual. Without effective incident management, an incident can disrupt business operations, information security, IT systems, employees, customers, or other vital business functions.\n\nIncident management is considered to be much more than just the analysis of perceived threats and hazards towards and organization in order to work out the risk of that event occurring, and therefore the ability of that organization to conduct business as usual activities during the incident. An important part of risk management process and business resilience planning that Incident management is a real time physical activity.\n\nThe planning that has happened to formulate the response to an incident—be that a disaster, emergency, crisis or accident—has been done so that effective business resilience can take place to ensure minimal loss or damage whether that is to tangible or non tangible assets of that organization. Efficient physical management of the incident—making best use of both time and resources that are available and understanding how to get more resources from outside the organization when needed by clear and timely liaison—ensure the plan is implemented.\n\nNational Fire Protection Association states that incident management can be described as, '[a]n IMS [incident management system] is \"the combination of facilities, equipment, personnel, procedures and communications operating within a common organizational structure, designed to aid in the management of resources during incidents\".\n\nThe physical incident management is the real time response that may last for hours, days, or longer. The United Kingdom Cabinet Office have produced the National Recovery Guidance (NRG), which is aimed at local responders as part of the implementation of the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 (CCA). It describes the response as the following: \"Response encompasses the actions taken to deal with the immediate effects of an emergency. In many scenarios, it is likely to be relatively short and to last for a matter of hours or days – rapid implementation of arrangements for collaboration, co-ordination and communication are, therefore, vital. Response encompasses the effort to deal not only with the direct effects of the emergency itself (eg fighting fires, rescuing individuals) but also the indirect effects (eg disruption, media interest)\".\n\nInternational Organization for Standardization (ISO), which is the world's largest developer of international standards also makes a point in the description of its risk management, principles and guidelines document ISO 31000:2009 that, \"Using ISO 31000 can help organizations increase the likelihood of achieving objectives, improve the identification of opportunities and threats and effectively allocate and use resources for risk treatment\". This again shows the importance of not just good planning but effective allocation of resources to treat the risk.\n\nToday, an important role is played by a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), due to the rise of internet crime, and is a common example of incident faced by companies in developed nations all across the world. For example, if an organization discovers that an intruder has gained unauthorized access to a computer system, the CSIRT would analyze the situation, determine the breadth of the compromise, and take corrective action. Computer forensics is one task included in this process. Currently, over half of the world’s hacking attempts on Trans National Corporations (TNCs) take place in North America (57%). 23% of attempts take place in Europe. Having a well-rounded Computer Security Incident Response team is integral to providing a secure environment for any organization, and is becoming a critical part of the overall design of many modern networking teams.\n\nIncidents within a structured organization are normally dealt with by either an incident response team (IRT), or an incident management team (IMT). These are often designated beforehand or during the event, and are placed in control of the organization whilst the incident is dealt with, to restore normal functions.\n\nThe Incident Command System (ICS) is designed to deal with a larger incident involving a respond from multiple agencies. Popular with public safety agencies and jurisdictions in the United States, Canada and other countries, it is growing in practice in the private sector as organizations begin to manage without or co-manage emergencies with public safety agencies. ICS is a command and control mechanism that provides an expandable structure to manage emergency agencies. Although some of the details vary by jurisdiction, ICS normally consists of five primary elements: command, operations, planning, logistics and finance/administration. Several special staff positions, including public affairs, safety, and liaison, report directly to the incident commander (IC) when the emergency warrants establishment of those positions.\n\nAnother response system is the Gold–silver–bronze command structure, which is used by emergency services in the United Kingdom and other countries. The system has three levels of command: a gold commander sets the overall strategy, a silver commander is in direct charge of those at the scene and bronze commanders direct responders on the ground. An individual agency may use the system, or multiple agencies may use the system as they liaise. A common feature of the ICS and Gold-Silver-Bronze systems is that they create a separate command system to the agencies' usual hierarchy.\n\nUsually as part of the wider management process in private organizations, incident management is followed by post-incident analysis where it is determined why the incident happened despite precautions and controls. This analysis is normally overseen by the leaders of the organization, with the view of preventing repetition of the incident through precautionary measures and often changes in policy. This information is then used as feedback to further develop the security policy and/or its practical implementation. In the United States, the National Incident Management System, developed by the Department of Homeland Security, integrates effective practices in emergency management into a comprehensive national framework. This often results in a higher level of contingency planning, exercise and training, as well as an evaluation of the management of the incident.\n\nIncident management software systems are designed for collecting consistent, time sensitive, documented incident report data. Many of these products include features to automate the approval process of an incident report or case investigation. These products may also have the ability to collect real time incident information such as time and date data. Additionally incident report systems will automatically send notifications, assign tasks and escalations to appropriate individuals depending on the incident type, priority, time, status and custom criteria. Modern products provide the ability for administrators to configure the Incident report forms as needed, create analysis reports and set access controls on the data. These incident reports may have the ability for customization that may best suit the organizations using the systems. Some of these products have the ability to collect images, video, audio and other data. Incident management software systems exist that relate directly to specific industries.\n\nDuring the root cause analysis, human factors should be assessed. James Reason conducted a study into the understanding of adverse effects of human factors. The study found that major incident investigations, such as Piper Alpha and Kings Cross Underground Fire, made it clear that the causes of the accidents were distributed widely within and outside the organization. There are two types of events: active failure—an action that has immediate effects and has the likelihood to cause an accident—and latent or delayed action—events can take years to have an effect and are usually combined with triggering events that then cause the accident.\n\nActive failures are unsafe acts (errors and violations) committed by, for instance, the operators of machinery and supervisors of tasks. It is the people at the human-system interface whose actions can have immediate adverse consequences.\n\nLatent failures are created as the result of decisions taken at the higher echelons of an organisation. Their damaging consequences may lie dormant for a long time, only becoming evident when they combine with local triggering factors (e.g., the spring tide, the loading difficulties at Zeebrugge harbour, etc.) to breach the system's defences. Decisions taken in the higher echelons of an organization can trigger the events towards an accident becoming more likely, the planning, scheduling, forecasting, designing, policy making, etc., can have a slow burning effect. The actual unsafe act that triggers an accident can be traced back through the organization and the subsequent failures can be exposed, showing the accumulation of latent failures within the system as a whole that led to the accident becoming more likely and ultimately happening. Better improvement action can be applied, and reduce the likelihood of the event happening again.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "251755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251755", "title": "Index of management articles", "text": "Index of management articles\n\nThis is a list of articles on general management and strategic management topics. For articles on specific areas of management, such as marketing management, production management, human resource management, information technology management, and international trade, see the list of related topics at the bottom of this page.\n\n"}
{"id": "4445830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4445830", "title": "List of Airbus A320 orders and deliveries", "text": "List of Airbus A320 orders and deliveries\n\nThese are the orders and deliveries the Airbus A320 family.\n\nList of orders, deliveries and operators of the Airbus A320 family, as of 31 August 2018:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1742837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1742837", "title": "List of Australian and New Zealand advertising characters", "text": "List of Australian and New Zealand advertising characters\n\nMany advertising characters used as mascots and characters by companies in Australia and New Zealand are similar to those used in the United States and the United Kingdom. There are, however, quite a number that are unique to these two nations.\n\nMany advertisements shown on New Zealand television are made in Australia, and many Australian and New Zealand companies operate similar businesses on both sides of the Tasman Sea. As such, there is considerable overlap in advertising characters and mascots found in the two countries.\n\nThe following is a list of notable mascots and characters created specifically for advertising purposes in Australia and New Zealand, listed alphabetically by the product they represent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23062020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23062020", "title": "Marketing information system", "text": "Marketing information system\n\nA marketing information system (MKIS) is a management information system (MIS) designed to support marketing decision making. Jobber (2007) defines it as a \"system in which marketing data is formally gathered, stored, analysed and distributed to managers in accordance with their informational needs on a regular basis.\" In addition, the online business dictionary defines Marketing Information System (MKIS) as \"a system that analyzes and assesses marketing information, gathered continuously from sources inside and outside an organization or a store.\" Furthermore, \"an overall Marketing Information System can be defined as a set structure of procedures and methods for the regular, planned collection, analysis and presentation of information for use in making marketing decisions.\" (Kotler, at al, 2006)\n\nReid and Bojanic(2010) claimed that, \" The term market research informs relatively narrowerly than Marketing Information System(MkIS) which is altered from the term management information systemization. Market research indicates that information is not collected for a specific reason or project; the major objective is a one-time use. \"\n\n\"A marketing information system, which continuously collects the initial, routine and systematic data, is not only used for one particular topic but is designed for monitoring the degree of the marketing success to ensure the achievable of the operation as well.\"\n\nDeveloping a MKIS system is becoming extremely important as the strength of economies rely on services and to better understand the specific needs of customers. Kotler, et al. (2006) defined it more broadly as \"people, equipment, and procedures to gather, sort, analyze, evaluate, and distribute needed, timely, and accurate information to marketing decision makers.\"\n\nInsofar as an economy focuses on services, marketing is important to \"monitor the marketing environment for changes in buyer behavior competition, technology, economic conditions, and government policies.\" In this sense, the role of marketing is becoming pivotal for an organization to \"adapt to changes in the market environment.\" (Harmon, 2003)\n\nAs an economy relies on the acquisition of knowledge, MkIS systems are necessary to be able to define and differentiate the value proposition that one organization provides with respect to another, as well as to define their competitive advantage. (Harmon, 2003)\n\nThe main benefit of MkIS systems is to integrate market-monitoring systems with strategy development and the strategic implementation of policies and processes that help capture and act on customer management applications with marketing decision support systems. This area constitute Marketing intelligence that supports the analysis and market based activities that support customer relations and customer service with real time information with real time applications that support market based approaches.\n\nShajahan and arya(2004) stated that, \"Demands for the MkIS can be expressed by three crucial developments. Firstly, when companies expand and diversify into new markets, both the companies and customer's point of view are needed to be handled by the marketing managers. Therefore, there would be greater need for marketing information. Secondly, when consumers obtain an increment in the level of their income, it causes a tendency for them to be more discriminating during the purchasing procedure. A full awareness of the points that drive a consumer prefer a brand and the points that distinguished his brand from that of the rivals should be obtained by the marketers. This awareness is possible only with the help of a well- designed effective MkIS. Thirdly, the development of the markets and the movement from price to non-price grounds of competition lead to an increase in the importance of adoption and implementation by the competitors and finding the response of the consumers towards them. Analyzing the needs for MkIS from a third person's angle, three more factors come to the forefront viz., the information explosion, increasing complexity in decision making and the technological developments. \" \n\nIn addition, \"Great demand of information gathering for marketing decisions results in the need of attention by themselves. Though marketing research information can be generated by studies, which are normally conducted in the market place whereas marketing information systems are designed to gather, integrate, process and distribute marketing information comprehensively from all sources, including that from marketing research. The contrasting characteristics of MkIS and MR are presented in Table 5.1 as shown below:\n\nTable 5.1 Showing contrasting characteristic of MR and MkIS\n\nThe business function of marketing is concerned more with the planning, promotion and sale of products in existing markets and the development of new products and new markets. Thus marketing performs a vital function in the operation of a business enterprise. Business firms who turned to computers have been able to perform vital marketing function effectively for organizations' growth in the face of global competition.\"\n\nAccording to Robert Jamon (2003), MkIS systems are decomposed on four components: (1) user interfaces, (2) application software, (3) databases, and (4) system support. The following is a description of each one of these components.\n\n1. User interfaces. The essential element of the MAkINAS is the managers who will use the system and the interface they need to effectively analyze and use marketing information. The design of the system will depend on what type of decision managers need to make.\n\n2. Application software. These are the programs that marketing decision makers use to collect, analyze, and manage data for the purpose of developing the information necessary for marketing decisions.\n\n3. Database marketing. A marketing database is a system in which marketing data files are organized and stored.\n\n4. System support. This component consists of system managers who manage and maintain the system assets including software and hardware network, monitor its activities and ensure compliance with organizational policies.\n\nAlong with these components, MkIS systems include Marketing Decision Support Systems (MDSS), which in turn rely on simple systems such as Microsoft Excel, SPSS, and on-line analytical tools that help collect data. Data compiled for analysis is stored and processed from a data warehouse, which is simply a data repository system that helps store and further process data collected internally and externally. (Harmon, 2003)\n\nFrom Pride and Ferrell (2010), \"Internal database is a part of the most marketing information systems. In addition, it's relatively convenient for access and retrieve of information. A databases allow marketers to tap into an abundance of information useful in making marketing decisions: internal sales reports, newspaper articles, company news releases, government economic reports, bibliographies, and more, often accessed through a computer system.\"\n\nIn with Birn(2004), \" internal data is a part of the data that is needed to be collect and handled by the marketing information system. Further more, managers regard this as a command to make effective operation.But getting the information that is really needed from a marketing information system depends on what the information is and how it is used. The following internal operating data are essential:\n\nSandhusen(2000) defined that, environmental scanning is a display of the nature of MIS processed. \" It gives assistance for the marketers to develop the strategies, policies, plans and to make programs and budgets through dealing with the ongoing information on trends.\"\n\nAccording to Philip Kotler, the four components that comprise the MkIS system are Internal Reports (Records) System, Marketing Research System, Marketing Intelligence System, and Marketing Decision Support System\n\n1.Internal Reports System: It records various data from different department of a company, which is regarded as a major source of information.\n\n2.Marketing Intelligence System: It is a main source used by managers for gaining daily information of the external environment, hence assists the managers to react to the changing rapidly.\n\n3.Marketing Research System: It is used to collect primary and secondary data, and displays the results in forms of reports.\n\n4.Marketing Decision Support System: Compared to the supply of the data by the three previous systems, it focuses more on processing the data.\n\nBhasin stated that,\"With an increasingly competitive and expanding market, the amount of information needed daily by an organization is profound. So they have to establish a Marketing Information system. There are several advantages of Marketing information systems\n\n\n\"Nevertheless, the collection of marketing information should obey a high-frequent manner due to the rapid change in the external market.\" The possible risks the business may face if they disobey the manner according to Bhasin are:\n\nMaintenance, complexity and setting up a MkIS are one of the major hindrances to Marketing information systems. Furthermore, wrong information being fed in MkIS can become cumbersome and appropriate filters need to be established.\n\nKotler and Philip have said that \"both primary and secondary researches offer loads of the data and information needed for the marketers, whereas the secondary data sources are relatively superior in quick provision of data at lower cost. Simultaneously, a firm cannot find all the data required by itself, but sometimes can be done with the help of secondary research. However, researchers must assess those data collected from both primary and secondary data sources to enable the accuracy, updates and fairness. Each primary data collection method – observational, survey, and experimental – has its own advantages and disadvantages. Similarly, each of the various research contact methods – mail, telephone, personal interview, and online – also has its own advantages and drawbacks.\" \n\nA RuMIS is necessary not only for corporate organizations engaged in marketing of agricultural goods and manufactured goods intended for sales in rural areas. RuMIS is required also by the agriculturists and farmers who have enormous decis!ion-making to do.\n"}
{"id": "16703785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16703785", "title": "Multidimensional organization", "text": "Multidimensional organization\n\nA multidimensional organization is an organization that pursues its objectives simultaneously through multiple dimensions (product, region, account, market segment).\n\nThe multidimensional organization was discussed as early as the 1970s. It required the combination of the fall of costs of information, the development of dynamic multidimensional markets, and a new generation of workers and managers, to create this paradigm shift in organization forms.\n\nThe multidimensional organization exhibits the following:\n\n\nThe most basic reason for the rise of the multidimensional organization is that due to the fall in costs of information, customers start to behave in multidimensional ways in terms of their preferences, in the ways in which they select and purchase goods and services, make use of distribution channels, etc. To answer this increasing variety in customer behavior, both in private consumers and between businesses, firms need to increase their internal variety.\n\nThe multidimensional organization also answers the emergence of multidimensional strategies, in which firms not only pursue market dominance and superior efficiency, but also need to exploit economies of scale.\n\nThe multidimensional organization is a new organization form, compared to the U-form, the M-form and the H-form. It transcends the restrictions with the M-form or multi-unit organization, as well as the problems with the matrix-organization. Examples of firms with a multidimensional organization are IBM, Microsoft, and ASML.\n\nThe differences between the multidimensional organization and the matrix organization can be summarized as below:\n\nThe multidimensional organization implies specific requirements on how transactions are recorded in enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, implicating a shift away from the traditional paradigm in IT-governance of business IT-alignment. Now transactions need to be recorded, not only multidimensional, to allow multiple consolidations to occur simultaneously. Particularly, the recording needs to be neutral with respect to business models. ERP systems tend to have a technical lifetime of 10–15 years, whereas business models last for 3–5 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "34229379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34229379", "title": "Oracle Big Data Appliance", "text": "Oracle Big Data Appliance\n\nThe Oracle Big Data Appliance consists of hardware and software from Oracle Corporation sold as a computer appliance. It was announced in 2011, promoted for consolidating and loading unstructured data into Oracle Database software.\n\nOracle announced the Oracle Big Data Appliance on October 3, 2011 at Oracle OpenWorld.\nIt was similar to the Oracle Exadata Database Machine and announced with the Oracle Exalytics Business Intelligence Machine.\n\nThe original hardware components of the appliance consisted of a full rack configuration with 864GB of main memory and 432 TB of storage. A full rack consists of 18 servers nodes each of which had two 6-core Intel processors, 48 GB memory per node (upgradable to 96 GB or 144 GB), 12 x 2TB disks per node, InfiniBand Networking and 10 GbE connectivity.\n\nThe product includes an open-source distribution of Apache Hadoop. Support from Cloudera was announced in January 2012.\n\nThe Oracle NoSQL Database, Oracle Data Integrator with an adapter for Hadoop Oracle Loader for Hadoop, an open source distribution of R, Oracle Linux, and Oracle Java Hotspot Virtual Machine were also mentioned in the announcement..\n\n"}
{"id": "251368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251368", "title": "Power structure", "text": "Power structure\n\nA power structure is an overall system of influence relationships between any individual and every other individual within any selected group of people. A description of a power structure would capture the way in which power or authority is distributed between people within groups such as a government, nation, institution, organization, or a society. Such structures are of interest to various fields, including sociology, government, economics, and business. A power structure may be formal and intentionally constructed to maximize values like fairness or efficiency, as in a hierarchical organization wherein every entity, except one, is subordinate to a single other entity. Conversely, a power structure may be an informal set of roles, such as those found in a dominance hierarchy in which members of a social group interact, often aggressively, to create a ranking system. A culture that is organised in a dominance hierarchy is a dominator culture, the opposite of an egalitarian culture of partnership. A visible, dominant group or elite that holds power or authority within a power structure is often referred to as being the Establishment. Power structures are fluid, with changes occurring constantly, either slowly or rapidly, evolving or revolutionary, peacefully or violently.\n\n"}
{"id": "30781093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30781093", "title": "Religion and business", "text": "Religion and business\n\nReligion and business have throughout history interacted in ways that relate to and affected one another, as well as influenced sociocultural evolution, political geographies, and labour laws.\n\nSome areas, countries or cities have an economy based on religious tourism. Examples include Islamic Hajj tourism and Vatican tourism. The hotels and markets of important religious places are a source of income to the locals.\n\nThe boards or shines sometimes receive so much in donations that governments to take it under control for proper utilization of resources and management. The annual revenues of most of the religious places are not regulated.\n\nJudaism outlines requirements of accurate weights and measurements in commerce, as well as prohibitions on monetary deception, verbal deception and misrepresentation.\n\nGlobally, halal products comprise a US$2 trillion industry.\n\nAs of 2003, the kosher industry had certified more than 100,000 products, which total approximately US$165 billion in sales annually.\n\nUnited Kingdom labour law prohibits employer discrimination based on religion, belief, or any lack thereof.\n\nIn the United States, labor laws including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibit businesses from discriminating against employees based on the basis of religion. Business law is also at times applied to religious organizations, due to their status as incorporated entities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4561754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4561754", "title": "Resource-based view", "text": "Resource-based view\n\nThe resource-based view (RBV) is a managerial framework used to determine the strategic resources with the potential to deliver comparative advantage to a firm. These resources can be exploited by the firm in order to achieve sustainable competitive advantage.\n\nBarney's 1991 article \"Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage\" is widely cited as a pivotal work in the emergence of the resource-based view. However, some scholars argue that there was evidence for a fragmentary resource-based theory from the 1930s. RBV proposes that firms are heterogeneous because they possess heterogeneous resources, meaning firms can have different strategies because they have different resource mixes.\n\nThe RBV focuses managerial attention on the firm's internal resources in an effort to identify those assets, capabilities and competencies with the potential to deliver superior competitive advantages.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the \"resource-based view\" (also known as the \"resource-advantage theory\") of the firm became the dominant paradigm in strategic planning. RBV can be seen as a reaction against the positioning school and its somewhat prescriptive approach which focused managerial attention on external considerations, notably industry structure. The so-called positioning school had dominated the discipline throughout the 1980s. In contrast, the emergent resource-based view argued that the source of sustainable advantage derives from doing things in a superior manner; by developing superior capabilities and resources. Jay Barney's article, \"Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage\" (1991), is seen as pivotal in the emergence of the resource-based view. \n\nA number of scholars point out that a fragmentary resource-based perspective was evident from the 1930s, noting that Barney was heavily influenced by Wernerfelt's earlier work which introduced the idea of resource position barriers being roughly analogous to entry barriers in the positioning school. Other scholars suggest that the resource-based view represents a new paradigm, albeit with roots in \"Ricardian and Penrosian economic theories according to which firms can earn sustainable supranormal returns if, and only if, they have superior resources and those resources are protected by some form of isolating mechanism precluding their diffusion throughout the industry.\" While its exact influence is debated, Edith Penrose's 1959 book \"The Theory of the Growth of the Firm\" is held by two scholars of strategy to state many concepts that would later influence the modern, resource-based theory of the firm.\n\nThe RBV is an interdisciplinary approach that represents a substantial shift in thinking. The resource-based view is interdisciplinary in that it was developed within the disciplines of economics, ethics, law, management, marketing, supply chain management and general business. \n\nRBV focuses attention on an organisation's internal resources as a means of organising processes and obtaining a competitive advantage. Barney stated that for resources to hold potential as sources of sustainable competitive advantage, they should be valuable, rare, imperfectly imitable and not substitutable (now generally known as \"VRIN\" criteria). The resource-based view suggests that organisations must develop unique, firm-specific core competencies that will allow them to outperform competitors by doing things differently.\n\nAlthough the literature presents many different ideas around the concept of the resource-advantage perspective, at its heart, the common theme is that the firm's resources are financial, legal, human, organisational, informational and relational; resources are heterogeneous and imperfectly mobile and that management's key task is to understand and organise resources for sustainable competitive advantage. Key theorists who have contributed to the development of a coherent body of literature include Jay B. Barney, George S. Day, Gary Hamel, Shelby D. Hunt, G. Hooley and C.K. Prahalad.\n\nAchieving a sustainable competitive advantage lies at the heart of much of the literature in both strategic management and strategic marketing. The resource-based view offers strategists a means of evaluating potential factors that can be deployed to confer a competitive edge. A key insight arising from the resource-based view is that not all resources are of equal importance, nor possess the potential to become a source of sustainable competitive advantage. The sustainability of any competitive advantage depends on the extent to which resources can be imitated or substituted. Barney and others point out that understanding the causal relationship between the sources of advantage and successful strategies can be very difficult in practice. Thus, a great deal of managerial effort must be invested in identifying, understanding and classifying core competencies. In addition, management must invest in organisational learning to develop, nurture and maintain key resources and competencies.\n\nIn the resource-based view, strategists select the strategy or competitive position that best exploits the internal resources and capabilities relative to external opportunities. Given that strategic resources represent a complex network of inter-related assets and capabilities, organisations can adopt many possible competitive positions. Although scholars debate the precise categories of competitive positions that are used, there is general agreement, within the literature, that the resource-based view is much more flexible than Porter's prescriptive approach to strategy formulation.\n\nThe key managerial tasks are:\n\n1) Identify the firm’s potential key resources.\n\n2) Evaluate whether these resources fulfill the following criteria (also known as \"VRIN\" criteria:\n\n\n3) Develop, nurture and protect resources that pass these evaluations.\n\nGiven the centrality of resources in terms of conferring competitive advantage, the management and marketing literature carefully defines and classifies resources and capabilities.\n\nBarney defines firm resources as: \"all assets, capabilities, organizational processes, firm attributes, information, knowledge, etc. controlled by a firm that enable the firm to conceive of and implement strategies that improve its efficiency and effectiveness” \n\nCapabilities are “a special type of resource, specifically an organizationally embedded non-transferable firm-specific resource whose purpose is to improve the productivity of the other resources possessed by the firm.” \n\nBarney defined a competitive advantage as \"when [a firm] is able to implement a “value creating strategy not simultaneously being implemented by any current or potential competitors.”\n\nFirm-based resources may be tangible or intangible.\n\nFirms in possession of a resource, or mix of resources that are rare among competitors, are said to have a \"comparative advantage.\" This comparative advantage enables firms to produce marketing offerings that are either (a) perceived as having superior value or (b) can be produced at lower costs. Therefore, a comparative advantage in resources can lead to a competitive advantage in market position.\n\nIn the resource-based view, strategists select the strategy or competitive position that best exploits the internal resources and capabilities relative to external opportunities. Given that strategic resources represent a complex network of inter-related assets and capabilities, organisations can adopt many possible competitive positions. Although scholars debate the precise categories of competitive positions that are used, there is general agreement, within the literature, that the resource-based view is much more flexible than Porter's prescriptive approach to strategy formulation. Hooley et al. suggest the following classification of competitive positions:\n\nA number of criticisms of RBV have been widely cited, and are as follows:\n\n\nOther criticisms include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294216", "title": "SWOT analysis", "text": "SWOT analysis\n\nSWOT analysis (or SWOT matrix) is a strategic planning technique used to help a person or organization identify strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats related to business competition or project planning. It is intended to specify the objectives of the business venture or project and identify the internal and external factors that are favorable and unfavorable to achieving those objectives. Users of a SWOT analysis often ask and answer questions to generate meaningful information for each category to make the tool useful and identify their competitive advantage. SWOT has been described as the tried-and-true tool of strategic analysis. \n\nStrengths and weakness are frequently internally-related, while opportunities and threats commonly focus on the external environment. The name is an acronym for the four parameters the technique examines:\nThe degree to which the internal environment of the firm matches with the external environment is expressed by the concept of strategic fit. Identification of SWOTs is important because they can inform later steps in planning to achieve the objective. First, decision-makers should consider whether the objective is attainable, given the SWOTs. If the objective is \"not\" attainable, they must select a different objective and repeat the process.\n\nSome authors credit SWOT to Albert Humphrey, who led a convention at the Stanford Research Institute (now SRI International) in the 1960s and 1970s using data from Fortune 500 companies. However, Humphrey himself did not claim the creation of SWOT, and the origins remain obscure.\n\nSWOT analysis aims to identify the key internal and external factors seen as important to achieving an objective. SWOT analysis groups key pieces of information into two main categories:\n\n\nAnalysis may view the internal factors as strengths or as weaknesses depending upon their effect on the organization's objectives. What may represent strengths with respect to one objective may be weaknesses (distractions, competition) for another objective. The factors may include all of the 4Ps as well as personnel, finance, manufacturing capabilities, and so on.\n\nThe external factors may include macroeconomic matters, technological change, legislation, and sociocultural changes, as well as changes in the marketplace or in competitive position. The results are often presented in the form of a matrix.\n\nSWOT analysis is just one method of categorization and has its own weaknesses. For example, it may tend to persuade its users to compile lists rather than to think about actual important factors in achieving objectives. It also presents the resulting lists uncritically and without clear prioritization so that, for example, weak opportunities may appear to balance strong threats.\n\nIt is prudent not to eliminate any candidate SWOT entry too quickly. The importance of individual SWOTs will be revealed by the value of the strategies they generate. A SWOT item that produces valuable strategies is important. A SWOT item that generates no strategies is not important.\n\nThe usefulness of SWOT analysis is not limited to profit-seeking organizations. SWOT analysis may be used in any decision-making situation when a desired end-state (objective) is defined. Examples include non-profit organizations, governmental units, and individuals. SWOT analysis may also be used in pre-crisis planning and preventive crisis management. SWOT analysis may also be used in creating a recommendation during a viability study/survey.\n\nSWOT analysis can be used effectively to build organizational or personal strategy. Steps necessary to execute strategy-oriented analysis involve identification of internal and external factors (using the popular 2x2 matrix), selection and evaluation of the most important factors, and identification of relations existing between internal and external features.\n\nFor instance, strong relations between strengths and opportunities can suggest good conditions in the company and allow using an \"aggressive\" strategy. On the other hand, strong interactions between weaknesses and threats could be analyzed as a potential warning and advice for using a \"defensive\" strategy.\n\nOne way of using SWOT is matching and converting. Matching is used to find competitive advantage by matching the strengths to opportunities. Another tactic is to convert weaknesses or threats into strengths or opportunities. An example of a conversion strategy is to find new markets. If the threats or weaknesses cannot be converted, a company should try to minimize or avoid them.\n\nAs part of the development of strategies and plans to enable the organization to achieve its objectives, that organization will use a systematic/rigorous process known as corporate planning. SWOT alongside PEST/PESTLE can be used as a basis for the analysis of business and environmental factors.\n\nIn many competitor analysis, marketers build detailed profiles of each competitor in the market, focusing especially on their relative competitive strengths and weaknesses using SWOT analysis. Marketing managers will examine each competitor's cost structure, sources of profits, resources and competencies, competitive positioning and product differentiation, degree of vertical integration, historical responses to industry developments, and other factors.\n\nMarketing management often finds it necessary to invest in research to collect the data required to perform accurate marketing analysis. Accordingly, management often conducts market research (alternately marketing research) to obtain this information. Marketers employ a variety of techniques to conduct market research, but some of the more common include:\n\nBelow is an example SWOT analysis of a market position of a small management consultancy with specialism in HRM.\n\nThe SWOT analysis has been used in community work as a tool to identify positive and negative factors within organizations, communities, and the broader society that promote or inhibit successful implementation of social services and social change efforts. It is used as a preliminary resource, assessing strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in a community served by a nonprofit or community organization. This organizing tool is best used in collaboration with community workers and/or community members before developing goals and objectives for a program design or implementing an organizing strategy. The SWOT analysis is a part of the planning for social change process and will not provide a strategic plan if used by itself. After a SWOT analysis is completed, a social change organization can turn the SWOT list into a series of recommendations to consider before developing a strategic plan.\n\nStrengths and weaknesses (\"internal factors within an organization\"):\n\nOpportunities and threats (\"external factors stemming from community or societal forces\"):\n\nAlthough the SWOT analysis was originally designed as an organizational method for business and industries, it has been replicated in various community work as a tool for identifying external and internal support to combat internal and external opposition. The SWOT analysis is necessary to provide direction to the next stages of the change process. It has been used by community organizers and community members to further social justice in the context of Social Work practice.\n\nAs mentioned above, SWOT can be crucial to determining the success of a project, while factoring in funding, as well as accessibility and logic. Often, a city will spend a year weighing the Risk-benefits of a project before they even vote on it.\nElements to consider in a SWOT analysis include understanding the community that a particular organization is working with. This can be done via public forums, listening campaigns, and informational interviews. Data collection will help inform the community members and workers when developing the SWOT analysis. A needs and assets assessment is tooling that can be used to identify the needs and existing resources of the community. When these assessments are done and data has been collected, an analysis of the community can be made that informs the SWOT analysis.\n\nA SWOT analysis is best developed in a group setting such as a work or community meeting. A facilitator can conduct the meeting by first explaining what a SWOT analysis is as well as identifying the meaning of each term.\n\nOne way of facilitating the development of a SWOT analysis includes developing an example SWOT with the larger group then separating each group into smaller teams to present to the larger group after set amount of time. This allows for individuals, who may be silenced in a larger group setting, to contribute. Once the allotted time is up, the facilitator may record all the factors of each group onto a large document such as a poster board, and then the large group, as a collective, can go work through each of the threats and weaknesses to explore options that may be used to combat negative forces with the strengths and opportunities present within the organization and community. A SWOT meeting allows participants to creatively brainstorm, identify obstacles, and possibly strategize solutions/way forward to these limitations.\n\nThe uses of a SWOT analysis by a community organization are as follows: to organize information, provide insight into barriers that may be present while engaging in social change processes, and identify strengths available that can be activated to counteract these barriers.\n\n\"A SWOT analysis can be used to:\"\n\nThe SWOT analysis in social work practice framework is beneficial because it helps organizations decide whether or not an objective is obtainable and therefore enables organizations to set achievable goals, objectives, and steps to further the social change or community development effort. It enables organizers to take visions and produce practical and efficient outcomes that effect long-lasting change, and it helps organizations gather meaningful information to maximize their potential. Completing a SWOT analysis is a useful process regarding the consideration of key organizational priorities, such as gender and cultural diversity and fundraising objectives.\n\nSome findings from Menon et al. (1999) and Hill and Westbrook (1997) have suggested that SWOT may harm performance and that \"no-one subsequently used the outputs within the later stages of the strategy\". \n\nOther critiques include the misuse of the SWOT analysis as a technique that can be quickly designed without critical thought leading to a misrepresentation of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats within an organization's internal and external surroundings. If a firm becomes preoccupied with a single strength, such as cost control, they can neglect their weaknesses, such as product quality.\n\nAnother limitation includes the development of a SWOT analysis simply to defend previously decided goals and objectives. This misuse leads to limitations on brainstorming possibilities and \"real\" identification of barriers. This misuse also places the organization’s interest above the well-being of the community. Further, a SWOT analysis should be developed as a collaborative with a variety of contributions made by participants including community members. The design of a SWOT analysis by one or two community workers is limiting to the realities of the forces, specifically external factors, and devalues the possible contributions of community members.\n\nOverall, managers should remember that SWOT is a starting point for discussion and cannot, in itself, show managers how to achieve a competitive advantage. Because the SWOT analysis is a snapshot of the firm at a particular moment in time, the analysis might obscure the fact that both the internal and external environment are rapidly changing.\n\nIn project management, the alternative to SWOT known by the acronym SVOR (Strengths, Vulnerabilities, Opportunities, and Risks) compares the project elements along two axes: internal and external, and positive and negative. It takes into account the mathematical link that exists between these various elements, considering also the role of infrastructures. The SVOR table provides an intricate understanding of the elements at play in a given project:\nConstraints consist of: calendar of tasks and activities, costs, and norms of quality. The \"k\" constant varies with each project (for example, it may be valued at 1.3).\n\nMany reports have been published about the use of SWOT by real life companies, and how the idea is spreading. Coca-Cola has used this in their television ads in order to effectively target a customer, such as appeal to senses.\n\nIn the \"Silicon Valley\" episode \"Homicide\" (Season 2, Episode 6), Jared Dunn (Zach Woods) introduces the Pied Piper team to SWOT analysis. Later in that episode Dinesh (Kumail Nanjiani) and Gilfoyle (Martin Starr) employ the method when deciding whether or not to inform a stunt driver that the calculations for his upcoming jump were performed incorrectly.\n\n"}
{"id": "28739392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28739392", "title": "Starting a Business Index", "text": "Starting a Business Index\n\nThe Starting a Business Index is a sub-index of the World Bank Ease of Doing Business Index.\n\nThis methodology was developed by Simeon Djankov, Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-De-Silanes and Andrei Shleifer in a paper The Regulation of Entry.\n\nRanking of all nations from 2010 report \n\n\nhttp://ibourl.com/3bai\n"}
{"id": "16773166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16773166", "title": "Tulane Corporate Law Institute", "text": "Tulane Corporate Law Institute\n\nThe Tulane Corporate Law Institute is an annual two-day M&A and corporate law conference that takes place in downtown New Orleans every spring. It attracts the most high-profile lawyers and bankers from around the United States, as well as judges, journalists, and others who follow the dealmaking world. The event typically takes place on a Thursday and Friday in late March or early April, at a prominent Canal Street hotel. \n\nIn the late 1980s, Delaware Supreme Court Justice Andrew G.T. Moore (author of \"Smith v. Van Gorkom\" and \"Revlon v. MacAndrews\") and a group of New Orleans corporate practitioners were among those who undertook an aggressive goal: to establish a new annual platform for a gathering of the nation's\nleading corporate jurists and practitioners. More than 20 years later, the Tulane Corporate Law Institute remains a critical meeting place for national leaders in the fields of law and business. \n\nThe second day of the 22nd annual meeting (on April 16, 2010), coincided with the unexpected release of an SEC fraud complaint against Goldman Sachs. The release temporarily disrupted the day's meeting agenda as the story made national headlines and SEC officials were sought for comment in The Roosevelt Hotel. The news caused an immediate thirteen percent drop in Goldman's stock price, and a 1.3% decline in the market as a whole. \n\n\n\nThe Tulane Law School's Career Development Office typically organizes informational interviews among leading practitioners and select groups of Tulane law and JD/MBA students. In the past, students have met directly with a variety of business and governmental leaders, including partners of big New York City and Los Angeles law firms, in-house attorneys at major investment banks and hedge funds throughout the country, and the commissioner of the SEC.\n\n"}
{"id": "23547259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23547259", "title": "UCLA-NUS Executive MBA", "text": "UCLA-NUS Executive MBA\n\nThe UCLA-NUS Executive MBA (EMBA) program is a management education program developed jointly by the University of California, Los Angeles (Anderson) and the NUS Business School, National University of Singapore. It allows senior executives from all around the world to participate in.\n\nUCLA Anderson School of Management was established in 1935 and provides management education to more than 1,300 students enrolled in full-time, part-time and executive MBA and doctoral programs.\n\nBy invitation from the Board of Directors of GMAC (the administrative body for GMAT), the School has been representing the Southeast Asian region as a governing school of GMAC since 2000. The School is also a \"Non-European\" member of the international network for excellence in management development (EFMD).\n\nThe UCLA – NUS Executive MBA general management curriculum consists of 16 course modules and a two-part Management Practicum conducted via 6 two-week sessions spanning a 15-month period. Participants spend two sessions each at UCLA in Los Angeles and NUS in Singapore, and one each in Shanghai and Bangalore. \n"}
{"id": "5918532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5918532", "title": "Undervalue transaction", "text": "Undervalue transaction\n\nAn undervalue transaction is a transaction entered into by a company who subsequently goes into bankruptcy which the court orders be set aside, usually upon the application of a liquidator for the benefit of the debtor's creditors. Under Australian insolvency law they are referred to as uncommercial transactions.\n\nUnder ordinary principles of contract law, the courts will not generally look into the adequacy of the consideration provided by either side. However, if a company is in real peril of going into bankruptcy, many legal systems provide a mechanism that transactions which are seriously commercially disadvantageous to the company can be unwound, so as to prevent prejudice to the creditors of the company.\n\nNormally, for a transaction to be set aside as an undervalue transaction, the liquidator or equivalent must demonstrate that:\n\nThe vulnerability period is the period of time immediately prior to the company going into bankruptcy. The length of the vulnerability period varies between countries, and some countries apply different vulnerability periods in different circumstances. For example, in the United Kingdom, the vulnerability period is either:\nThe period is calculated by reference to the period of time immediately preceding the company going into liquidation or administration.\n\nThe effect of a successful application to have a transaction declared as an undervalue transaction varies. Inevitably the other party to the transaction who received the benefit has to return the benefit (or account for it) it to the liquidator. In some countries the assets are treated in the normal way, and may be taken by any secured creditors who have a security interest which catches the assets (characteristically, a floating charge). However, some countries have \"ring-fenced\" recoveries of unfair preferences so that they are made available to the pool of assets for unsecured creditors.\n\nMany jurisdictions which have prohibitions on undervalue transactions also provide for an exception in the case of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business where the directors are of a view that it is for the benefit of the company, and such transactions are usually either validated or presumed to be validated.\n\n"}
{"id": "6040335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6040335", "title": "Wharton India Economic Forum", "text": "Wharton India Economic Forum\n\nThe Wharton India Economic Forum (WIEF), established in 1996 at The Wharton School, is a student-run business forum in the United States focused on India. WIEF is one of the largest India-based economic and business conferences in the United States. It is attended by over 800 people annually and receives extensive media coverage in India and the wider business by leading publications, such as The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, The New York Times, The Economic Times and The Times of India.\n\nWIEF's describes its mission as to \"engage the world's attention on India's enormous potential and the limitless possibilities the country offers\".\n\nGovernment & Policy\n\nIndustry\nFinance\n\nMedia & Entertainment\n\nSports\n\nOther\n\nThe 16th annual Wharton India Economic Forum was held on January 9, 2012 in Mumbai, India. This was the first time the WIEF was held in India.\n\nThe speakers included:\n\n\nKeynote Speakers\n\n\nMilind Deora opted out for an unspecified reason.\n\nMedia and Entertainment Panelists\n\n\nWomen's Empowerment Panelists\n\n\nPrivate Equity/Venture Capital Panelists\n\n\nFinance Panelists\n\n\nEntrepreneurship Panelists\n\n\nIn 2013, the WIEF organizers invited the Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi to deliver the keynote address via video-conferencing. Toorjo Ghose, an assistant professor at the University of Pennsylvania and a small group of colleagues put together a petition after learning about Wharton's invitation to Modi. Kasturi Sen, a Philadelphia-based attorney, created a group on Facebook and initially hosted the petition there. The petition cited the revocation of visa to Modi in 2005 by the US state department. They were joined by Ania Loomba and Suvir Kaul, both Indian-American UPenn professors, who were critical of Modi's handling of the 2002 Hindu-Muslim riots, started formal a petition demanding the cancellation of the invitation, failing which they would protest his virtual presence at the event.\n\nThe petition was sent to Amy Gutmann, the UPenn president. The university leadership stepped in to diffuse what it saw as a potentially explosive situation.\nThe WIEF organizers had to cancel the invitation, even though they stood by the earlier decision to invite Modi. They stated that they wanted to avoid putting Modi in a \"compromising position\". At the time of the decision, the petition had been signed by around 135 people, and the number of signatories grew to 250 later. A senior Wharton official distanced Wharton from the decision stating “Make no mistake, the move to not have Modi was a result of UPenn, not Wharton,” pointing to the fact that not a single Wharton faculty member had signed the petition demanding cancellation of Modi's speech.\n\nIn Modi's support, the Shiv Sena leader Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu scrapped his visit to Wharton. Another speaker, the Wall Street Journal writer and journalist Sadanand Dhume, also pulled out from the forum in protest. He was replaced by Sudhir Parikh, a New Jersey-based eminent physician, philanthropist, publisher and Padma Shri awardee. However, Parikh too withdrew from the conference as a mark of protest. He stated, \"The manner in which the committee has been pressurised to rescind its invitation to Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi on entirely suspicious grounds, I feel the intellectual integrity of the forum has been compromised.\" Ron Somers, also a keynote speaker, termed the decision to drop Modi as \"unfortunate and disrespectful\", but said that he would attend the event in order to make his point about free speech. Another keynote speaker Mohandas Pai also backed out complaining about mistreatment of Indians outside India; he mentioned the \"shabby\" treatment of Narendra Modi among other incidents such as the Italian marines controversy, Pakistan's reaction to Afzal Guru's hanging and Sri Lanka's treatment of Indian fishermen. The U.S. Congressman Eni Faleomavaega expressed disappointment at the decision, criticizing the protesters as \"a segment of professors and students who are reaching beyond the law and coming awfully close to violating the rights of others who have a different view\". Several others, including Rajiv Malhotra and the Indian Union Minister Shashi Tharoor also stated that Modi should not have been disinvited.\n\nThe Adani group, the platinum sponsors of the event, withdrew their sponsorship. Subsequently, Viacom 18's Colors, the silver sponsors, also pulled out. Hexaware, the bronze sponsor, also withdrew sponsorship, saying that its chairman Atul Nishar (a keynote speaker) would be unable to attend the event due to other business engagements.\n\nSome media outlets reported that Arvind Kejriwal had been invited instead of Modi, but Kejriwal clarified that he had received the invitation several days before the decision to drop Modi was made. Kejriwal also expressed his disapproval of the decision to drop Modi.\n\nAfter the controversy, the organizers announced that no media organizations other than TV Asia would be allowed to cover the event. This was for the first time in the 17 years history of the event that media was not given free access to cover the forum. A coalition of activists opposed to the decision came together under the banner of \"Americans for Free Speech\", and organized a peaceful protest at the venue.\n\nThe cancellation of Modi's speech ignited a debate on free speech on UPenn campus. Assem Shukla, Associate Professor of Surgery at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania stated: \"Penn’s tradition of free speech was celebrated when extreme anti-Israel speakers, Louis Farrakhan of the Nation of Islam and radical Occupy Wall Street protesters held sway on campus. But free speech became an empty homily when it came to the speaker selection of a group of Indian-American business school students\" Loomba stated that disinviting a speaker is also freedom of speech. She said \"Modi suporters can beam him in, but not in my house\".\n\n\n"}
