{"id": "14417025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14417025", "title": "Accounting ethics", "text": "Accounting ethics\n\nAccounting ethics is primarily a field of applied ethics and is part of business ethics and human ethics, the study of moral values and judgments as they apply to accountancy. It is an example of professional ethics. Accounting introduced by Luca Pacioli, and later expanded by government groups, professional organizations, and independent companies. Ethics are taught in accounting courses at higher education institutions as well as by companies training accountants and auditors.\n\nDue to the diverse range of accounting services and recent corporate collapses, attention has been drawn to ethical standards accepted within the accounting profession. These collapses have resulted in a widespread disregard for the reputation of the accounting profession. To combat the criticism and prevent fraudulent accounting, various accounting organizations and governments have developed regulations and remedies for improved ethics among the accounting profession.\n\nThe nature of the work carried out by accountants and auditors requires a high level of ethics. Shareholders, potential shareholders, and other users of the financial statements rely heavily on the yearly financial statements of a company as they can use this information to make an informed decision about investment. They rely on the opinion of the accountants who prepared the statements, as well as the auditors that verified it, to present a true and fair view of the company. Knowledge of ethics can help accountants and auditors to overcome ethical dilemmas, allowing for the right choice that, although it may not benefit the company, will benefit the public who relies on the accountant/auditor's reporting.\n\nMost countries have differing focuses on enforcing accounting laws. In Germany, accounting legislation is governed by \"tax law\"; in Sweden, by \"accounting law\"; and in the United Kingdom, by the \"company law\". In addition, countries have their own organizations which regulate accounting. For example, Sweden has the Bokföringsnämden (BFN - Accounting Standards Board), Spain the Instituto de Comtabilidad y Auditoria de Cuentas (ICAC), and the United States the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).\n\nLuca Pacioli, the \"Father of Accounting\", wrote on accounting ethics in his first book , published in 1494. Ethical standards have since then been developed through government groups, professional organizations, and independent companies. These various groups have led accountants to follow several codes of ethics to perform their duties in a professional work environment. Accountants must follow the code of ethics set out by the professional body of which they are a member. United States accounting societies such as the Association of Government Accountants, Institute of Internal Auditors, and the National Association of Accountants all have codes of ethics, and many accountants are members of one or more of these societies.\n\nIn 1887, the American Association of Public Accountants (AAPA) was created; it was the first step in developing professionalism in the United States accounting industry. By 1905, the AAPA's first ethical codes were formulated to educate its members. During its twentieth anniversary meeting in October 1907, ethics was a major topic of the conference among its members. As a result of discussions, a list of professional ethics was incorporated into the organization's bylaws. However, because membership to the organization was voluntary, the association could not require individuals to conform to the suggested behaviors. Other accounting organizations, such as the Illinois Institute of Accountants, also pursued discussion on the importance of ethics for the field. The AAPA was renamed several times throughout its history, before becoming the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) as it's named today. The AICPA developed five divisions of ethical principles that its members should follow: \"independence, integrity, and objectivity\"; \"competence and technical standards\"; \"responsibilities to clients\"; \"responsibilities to colleagues\"; as well as \"other responsibilities and practices\". Each of these divisions provided guidelines on how a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) should act as a professional. Failure to comply with the guidelines could have caused an accountant to be barred from practicing. When developing the ethical principles, the AICPA also considered how the profession would be viewed by those outside of the accounting industry.\n\nCourses on this subject have grown significantly in the last couple of decades. Teaching accountants about ethics can involve role playing, lectures, case studies, guest lectures, as well as other mediums. Recent studies indicate that nearly all accounting textbooks touch on ethics in some way. In 1993, the first United States center that focused on the study of ethics in the accounting profession opened at Binghamton University. Starting in 1999, several U.S. states began requiring ethics classes prior to taking the CPA exam.\n\nIn 1988, Stephen E. Loeb proposed that accounting ethics education should include seven goals (adapted from a list by Daniel Callahan). To implement these goals, he pointed out that accounting ethics could be taught throughout accounting curriculum or in an individual class tailored to the subject. Requiring it be taught throughout the curriculum would necessitate all accounting teachers to have knowledge on the subject (which may require training). A single course has issues as to where to include the course in a student's education (for example, before preliminary accounting classes or near the end of a student's degree requirements), whether there is enough material to cover in a semester class, and whether most universities have room in a four-year curriculum for a single class on the subject.\n\nThere has been debate on whether ethics should be taught in a university setting. Supporters point out that ethics are important to the profession, and should be taught to accountants entering the field. In addition, the education would help to reinforce students' ethical values and inspire them to prevent others from making unethical decisions. Critics argue that an individual is ethical or not, and that teaching an ethics course would serve no purpose. Despite opposition, instruction on accounting ethics by universities and conferences, has been encouraged by professional organizations and accounting firms. The Accounting Education Change Commission (AECC) has called for students to \"know and understand the ethics of the profession and be able to make value-based judgments.\"\n\nPhillip G. Cottel argued that in order to uphold strong ethics, an accountant \"must have a strong sense of values, the ability to reflect on a situation to determine the ethical implications, and a commitment to the well-being of others.\" Iris Stuart recommends an ethics model consisting of four steps: the accountant must recognize that an ethical dilemma is occurring; identify the parties that would be interested in the outcome of the dilemma; determine alternatives and evaluate its effect on each alternative on the interested parties; and then select the best alternative.\n\nAccounting ethics has been deemed difficult to control as accountants and auditors must consider the interest of the public (which relies on the information gathered in audits) while ensuring that they remained employed by the company they are auditing. They must consider how to best apply accounting standards even when faced with issues that could cause a company to face a significant loss or even be discontinued. Due to several accounting scandals within the profession, critics of accountants have stated that when asked by a client \"what does two plus two equal?\" the accountant would be likely to respond \"what would you like it to be?\". This thought process along with other criticisms of the profession's issues with conflict of interest, have led to various increased standards of professionalism while stressing ethics in the work environment.\n\nThe role of accountants is critical to society. Accountants serve as financial reporters and\nintermediaries in the capital markets and owe their primary obligation to the public interest. The\ninformation they provide is crucial in aiding managers, investors and others in making critical economic\ndecisions. Accordingly, ethical improprieties by accountants can be detrimental to society, resulting in\ndistrust by the public and disruption of efficient capital market operations.\nFrom the 1980s to the present there have been multiple accounting scandals that were widely reported on by the media and resulted in fraud charges, bankruptcy protection requests, and the closure of companies and accounting firms. The scandals were the result of creative accounting, misleading financial analysis, as well as bribery. Various companies had issues with fraudulent accounting practices, including Nugan Hand Bank, Phar-Mor, WorldCom, and AIG. One of the most widely reported violation of accounting ethics involved Enron, a multinational company, that for several years had not shown a true or fair view of their financial statements. Their auditor Arthur Andersen, an accounting firm considered one of the \"Big Five\", signed off on the validity of the accounts despite the inaccuracies in the financial statements. When the unethical activities were reported, not only did Enron dissolve but Arthur Andersen also went out of business. Enron's shareholders lost $25 billion as a result of the company's bankruptcy. Although only a fraction of Arthur Anderson's employees were involved with the scandal, the closure of the firm resulted in the loss of 85,000 jobs.\n\nFraudulent accounting can arise from a variety of issues. These problems usually come to light eventually and could ruin not only the company but also the auditors for not discovering or revealing the misstatements. Several studies have proposed that a firm's corporate culture as well as the values it stresses may negatively alter an accountant's behavior. This environment could contribute to the degradation of ethical values that were learned from universities.\n\nUntil 1977, ethics rules prevented accounting and auditing firms from advertising to clients. When the rules were lifted, spending by the largest CPA firms on advertisements rose from US$4 million in the 1980s to more than $100 million in the 2000s. Critics claimed that, by allowing the firms to advertise, the business side overstepped the professional side of the profession, which led to a conflict of interest. This focus allowed for occurrences of fraud, and caused the firms, according to Apj , \"... to offer services that made them more consultants and business advisers than auditors.\" As accounting firms became less interested in the lower-paying audits due to more focus on higher earning services such as consulting, problems arose. This disregard for the lack of time spent on audits resulted in a lack of attention to catching creative and fraudulent accounting.\n\nA 2007 article in \"Managerial Auditing Journal\" determined the top nine factors that contributed to ethical failures for accountants based on a survey of 66 members of the International Federation of Accountants. The factors include (in order of most significant): \"self-interest, failure to maintain objectivity and independence, inappropriate professional judgment, lack of ethical sensitivity, improper leadership and ill-culture, failure to withstand advocacy threats, lack of competence, lack of organizational and peer support, and lack of professional body support.\" The main factor, self-interest, is the motivation by an accountant to act in his/her best interest or when facing a conflict of interest. For example, if an auditor has an issue with an account he/she is auditing, but is receiving financial incentives to ignore these issues, the auditor may act unethically.\n\nThe International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are standards and interpretations developed by the International Accounting Standards Board, which are principle-based. IFRS are used by over 115 countries or areas including the European Union, Australia, and Hong Kong. The United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), the standard framework of guidelines for financial accounting, is largely rule-based. Critics have stated that the rules-based GAAP is partly responsible for the number of scandals that the United States has suffered. The principles-based approach to monitoring requires more professional judgment than the rules-based approach.\n\nThere are many stakeholders in many countries such as The United States who report several concerns in the usage of rules-based accounting. According to recent studies, many believe that the principles-based approach in financial reporting would not only improve but would also support an auditor upon dealing with client’s pressure. As a result, financial reports could be viewed with fairness and transparency. When the U.S. switched to International accounting standards, they are composed that this would bring change. However, as a new chairperson of the SEC takes over the system, the transition brings a stronger review about the pros and cons of rules- based accounting. While the move towards international standards progresses, there are small amount of research that examines the effect of principle- based standards in an auditor’s decision- making process. According to 114 auditing experts, most are willing to allow clients to manage their net income based on rules- based standards. These results offers insight to the SEC, IASB and FASB in weighing the arguments in the debate of principles- vs. rules based- accounting.\n\nIFRS is based on \"understandability, relevance, materiality, reliability, and comparability\". Since IFRS has not been adopted by all countries, these practices do not make the international standards viable in the world domain. In particular, the United States has not yet conformed and still uses GAAP which makes comparing principles and rules difficult. In August 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) proposed that the United States switch from GAAP to IFRS, starting in 2014.\n\nSince the major accounting scandals, new reforms, regulations, and calls for increased higher education have been introduced to combat the dangers of unethical behavior. By educating accountants on ethics before entering the workforce, such as through higher education or initial training at companies, it is believed it will help to improve the credibility of the accounting profession. Companies and accounting organizations have expanded their assistance with educators by providing education materials to assist professors in educating students.\n\nNew regulations in response to the scandals include the Corporate Law Economic Reform Program Act 2004 in Australia as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, developed by the United States. Sarbanes-Oxley limits the level of work which can be carried out by accounting firms. In addition, the Act put a limit on the fee which a firm can receive from one client as a percentage of their total fees. This ensures that companies are not wholly reliant on one firm for its income, in the hope that they do not need to act unethically to keep a steady income. The act also protects whistleblowers and requires senior management in public companies to sign off on the accuracy of its company's accounting records. In 2002, the five members of the Public Oversight Board (POB), which oversaw ethics within the accounting profession, resigned after critics deemed the board ineffective and the SEC proposed developing a new panel, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). The PCAOB was developed through the Act, and replaced the POB.\n\nIn 2003, the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) released a report entitled \"Rebuilding Public Confidence in Financial Reporting: An International Perspective\". By studying the international company collapses as a result of accounting issues, it determined areas for improvement within organizations as well as recommendations for companies to develop more effective ethics codes. The report also recommended that companies pursue options that would improve training and support so accountants could better handle ethical dilemmas.\nA collaborative effort by members of the international financial regulatory community led by Michel Prada, Chairman of the French Financial Markets Authority, resulting in establishment of the Public Interest Oversight Board (PIOB) on 1 March 2005.\nThe PIOB provides oversight of the IFAC standards-setting boards: the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), the International Accounting Education Standards Board (IAESB) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA).\n\nThe most recent reform came into effect in July 2010 when President Obama signed \"The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act\". The act covers a broad range of changes. The highlights of the legislation are consumer protections with authority and independence, ends too big to fail bail outs, advance warning system, transparency and accountability for exotic instruments, executive compensation and corporate governance, protects investors, and enforces regulations on the books. The legislation also resulted in the Office of the Whistleblower, which was established to administer the SEC's whistleblower program. Congress authorized the SEC to provide monetary awards to whistleblowers who come forward with information that results in a minimum of a $1,000,000 sanction. The rewards are between 10% and 30% of the dollar amount collected. Whistleblowers help identify fraud and other unethical behaviors early on. The result is less harm to investors, quickly holding offenders responsible, and to maintain the integrity of the U.S. markets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1754048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1754048", "title": "Agile manufacturing", "text": "Agile manufacturing\n\nAgile manufacturing is a term applied to an organization that has created the processes, tools, and training to enable it to respond quickly to customer needs and market changes while still controlling costs and quality. \n\nAn enabling factor in becoming an agile manufacturer has been the development of manufacturing support technology that allows the marketers, the designers and the production personnel to share a common database of parts and products, to share data on production capacities and problems—particularly where small initial problems may have larger \"downstream\" effects. It is a general proposition of manufacturing that the cost of correcting quality issues increases as the problem moves downstream, so that it is cheaper to correct quality problems at the earliest possible point in the process.\n\nAgile manufacturing is seen as the next step after lean manufacturing in the evolution of production methodology. The key difference between the two is like between a thin and an athletic person, agile being the latter. One can be neither, one or both. In manufacturing theory, being both is often referred to as leagile.\nAccording to Martin Christopher, when companies have to decide what to be, they have to look at the customer order cycle (COC) (the time the customers are willing to wait) and the leadtime for getting supplies. If the supplier has a short lead time, lean production is possible. If the COC is short, agile production is beneficial.\n\nAgile manufacturing is an approach to manufacturing which is focused on meeting the needs of customers while maintaining high standards of quality and controlling the overall costs involved in the production of a particular product. This approach is geared towards companies working in a highly competitive environment, where small variations in performance and product delivery can make a huge difference in the long term to a company's survival and reputation among consumers.\n\nThis concept is closely related to lean manufacturing, in which the goal is to reduce waste as much as possible. In lean manufacturing, the company aims to cut all costs which are not directly related to the production of a product for the consumer. Agile manufacturing can include this concept, but it also adds an additional dimension, the idea that customer demands need to be met rapidly and effectively. In situations where companies integrate both approaches, they are sometimes said to be using \"agile and lean manufacturing\".\nCompanies which utilize an agile manufacturing approach tend to have very strong networks with suppliers and related companies, along with numerous cooperative teams which work within the company to deliver products effectively. They can retool facilities quickly, negotiate new agreements with suppliers and other partners in response to changing market forces, and take other steps to meet customer demands. This means that the company can increase production on products with a high consumer demand, as well as redesign products to respond to issues which have emerged on the open market.\n\nMarkets can change very quickly, especially in the global economy. A company which cannot adapt quickly to change may find itself left behind, and once a company starts to lose market share, it can fall rapidly. The goal of agile manufacturing is to keep a company ahead of the competition so that consumers think of that company first, which allows it to continue innovating and introducing new products, because it is financially stable and it has a strong customer support base.\n\nCompanies that want to switch to the use of agile manufacturing can take advantage of consultants who specialize in helping companies convert and improve existing systems. Consultants can offer advice and assistance which is tailored to the industry a company is involved in, and they usually focus on making companies competitive as quickly as possible with proved agile techniques. There are also a number of textbooks and manuals available with additional information on agile manufacturing techniques and approaches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48061959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48061959", "title": "Allied London", "text": "Allied London\n\nAllied London is a property development and investment company that develops landmark projects ranging from re-use to regeneration developments across retail, commercial, office, residential, restaurant, and leisure sectors. The company also offers rental options. They own several buildings in the Spinningfields area of Manchester, as well as Glasgow, Leeds and London.\n\nThe company was founded in 1909 and became a private company with Michael Ingall as its CEO from September 2000.\n\nAllied London's properties include:\n\n\n\n\n\nIn April 2014 Allied London launched \"hello\" Work, to provide hot desking, co-working and studios alongside a community and events programme for SMEs.\n\n"}
{"id": "29770591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29770591", "title": "Ambidextrous organization", "text": "Ambidextrous organization\n\nOrganizational ambidexterity refers to an organization's ability to be efficient in its management of today's business and also adaptable for coping with tomorrow's changing demand. Just as being ambidextrous means being able to use both the left and right hand equally, organizational ambidexterity requires the organizations to use both exploration and exploitation techniques to be successful.\n\nOrganizational ambidexterity was defined as an organization's ability to be aligned and efficient in its management of today's business demands as well as being adaptive to changes in the environment at the same time. This term of organizational ambidexterity was first used by Duncan, however, it was March that had been credited for developing and generating greater interest in this concept, especially in the late 20th and early 21st century. Ambidexterity in an organization is achieved by balancing exploration and exploitation, which allows the organization to be creative and adaptable, while also continuing to rely on more traditional, proven methods of business. Exploration includes things such as search, variation, risk taking, experimentation, flexibility, discovery or innovation, whereas exploitation includes such things as refinement, choice, production, efficiency, selection, implementation, and execution. Companies that focus only on exploration face the risk of wasting resources on ideas that may not prove useful or never be developed. On the other hand, companies that focus only on exploitation may accept status quo performance and products and fail to reach optimal levels of success.\n\nOrganizational ambidexterity is defined broadly, and several other terms are also highly related or similar to the construct of ambidextrous organization, including organizational learning, technological innovation, organizational adaptation, strategic management, and organizational design. Things such as reconciling exploitation and exploration, the simultaneity of induced and autonomous strategy processes, synchronizing incremental and discontinuous innovation, and balancing search and stability also tend to refer to the same underlying construct as ambidextrous organization.\n\nThere are studies on how structural and behavioral mechanisms affect organizational ambidexterity and studies on how ambidextrous organizational designs affect organizational ambidexterity. Whereas earlier studies on structural and behavioral mechanisms regarded the trade-offs between exploration and exploitation to be insurmountable, more recent research has paid attention to a range of organizational solutions to engender the existence of ambidexterity. One recent hot research topic in this area focused on the leadership characteristics that enable organizations to manage the contradictions that they face and achieve ambidexterity, which is the origin of the concept ‘ambidextrous leadership’. Several antecedents, outcomes of organizational ambidexterity as well as related moderators have also been identified in the studies on structural and behavioral mechanisms.\n\nThe studies on \"ambidextrous organizations\" take the organization as the unit of analysis and ambidextrous organizing is conceptualized as the simultaneous pursuit and combination of incremental and discontinuous innovation. \"Ambidextrous organizations\" are needed if the failure to balance exploitation and exploration is to be overcome: \"the ability to pursue simultaneously both incremental and discontinuous innovation results from hosting multiple contradictory structures, processes, and cultures\" (Tushman and O'Reilly, 1996: page 24). It has been empirically found that competence exploitation is negatively related to radical innovation performance whereas the effect for competence exploration is positive; competence exploration will be more valuable to the firm when it is matched with lower levels of competence exploitation, and vice versa. It has been theorized that the \"ambidextrous organization\" does not solve the tension between alignment and adaptability but allows for coping with the tension between different types of alignment in order to produce incremental and discontinuous innovation. \"Ambidextrous organizations\" do not alternate between exploration and exploitation, but they do both simultaneously. There's work that empirically investigates the processes of ambidextrous organizing by analyzing the implementation of the \"ambidextrous organizations\" concept in order to study whether there is evidence on how companies applying the concepts (suggested by \"ambidextrous organizations\" proponents) actually manage the processes of exploitation and exploration.\n\nOrganizational ambidexterity can be considered primarily from two angles. One is architectural or structural ambidexterity, which uses dual organizational structures and strategies to differentiate efforts towards exploitation and exploration. Structural ambidexterity includes dual parts, with one part focusing on exploitation and the other focusing on exploration. It's also known as the spatial separation of the dual strategies concepts outlined above. The other approach is contextual ambidexterity, which uses behavioral and social means to integrate exploitation and exploration at the organizational unit level. Contextual ambidexterity is a balanced type that takes a mid-level position between exploitation and exploration, also known as parallel structures or hybrid strategies.\n\nAlthough both angles are related to the theme of organizational ambidexterity, they strongly differ in the way how they are configured. There has always been a debate of which of the two different approaches is right. The dual type allows both discrete orientations and fit across dimensions at the unit level but creates a misfit between organizational units. Some researchers argued that inconsistent structures may lead to low performance. There are also some researchers trying to investigate the external and internal contingencies under which different configurations can be found. One factor would be the speed and type of technological change that organizations confront. On the other hand, the balanced type (i.e. contextual ambidexterity) is consistent with the systems approach of fit across multiple dimensions, but contradicts the opinion that organizational choice is discrete. In an environment where changes are slow, there will be sufficient time to react to the radical changes by constructing dual structures and strategies. However, in a high-competitive environment, balanced structures may be better prepared to deal with the constant need for alignment. In future studies, the different organizational ambidexterity configurations can be compared to find a better solution for dealing with the exploitation and exploration paradox.\n\nAmbidexterity is often considered a capacity or skill and can therefore be facilitated by either the organization as a whole or managers / CEOs. From the structural ambidexterity's view, organizations can solve the paradox by temporarily cycling through periods of exploitation and periods of exploration. From the other point of view (contextual ambidexterity), firms ought to address exploitation and exploration simultaneously and internally to achieve the goal ambidexterity. Contextual ambidexterity is more difficult to achieve than structural ambidexterity because managing two inconsistent alignments within an organization simultaneously is far more complex than managing one consistent strategy after another. Thus most studies on how to build ambidextrous organizations in literature focused on contextual ambidexterity rather than structural ambidexterity.\n\nThe role of leaders (or managers) is always highlighted towards building an ambidextrous organization. Several recommendations have been made to organizations on how to achieve contextual ambidexterity, including using of meta-routines and job-enrichment schemes, building trust with supervisees, being supportive, using complex behavioral repertoires, and the creation of a shared vision.\n\nIn addition, several characteristics of organizational culture are also emphasized on building an ambidextrous organization. Successful organizations should be able to balance the hard elements (discipline and stretch) and the soft elements (support and trust) in their organizational contexts. It was also suggested that establishing shared goals, developing a collective identity, creating a culture of support, and giving personal meaning to individuals’ contributions to the overall purpose of an organization all contributes to ambidexterity. A decentralized structure and a culture of excellence, recruitment and training are also important aspects of establishing an ambidextrous organization.\n\nAmbidexterity is beneficial to organizations in many aspects. As it is the ability to keep a balance between explorative and exploitative processes, the most core outcome of ambidexterity is innovation because innovation needs both explorative and exploitative aspects. Innovation is defined as \"the sequence of activities by which a new element is introduced into a social unit, with the intention of benefiting the unit, some part of it, or the wider society\" (West & Farr, 1990). The new element need not be entirely novel or unfamiliar to members of the unit, but it must involve some discernible change or challenge to the status quo (West & Farr, 1990). Most theoretical models of innovation differentiate at least two processes: idea generation and idea implementation (e.g., Amabile, 1988; West, 2002). The generation phase is closely linked to explorative activities while the implementation phase is highly linked to exploitative activities. An ambidextrous organization is able to pursue innovation (creating new products/services) while also maintaining itself through the continued use of proven techniques/products.\n\nIn addition, ambidexterity can promote some other positive organizational outcomes besides innovation. It has been proved in literature that the interaction between explorative and exploitative innovation strategies (in other words, ambidexterity) is positively related to sales growth rate, and imbalance between explorative and exploitative innovation strategies is negatively related to sales growth rate (He & Wong, 2004). Various organizations have been able to overcome organizational challenges and become more innovative because of ambidexterity. A study looking at 41 businesses found that ambidexterity was highly correlated with performance. Similarly, another study of 34 high-tech organizations showed that their ability to simultaneously execute exploration and exploitation was associated with higher performance (Chandrasekaran et al. 2012).\n\nCompanies such as Apple, General Radio, Nordstrom and British Airways have all had continued success throughout the years because of their capacity for ambidexterity. From 1981 to 1986, British Airways experienced increased profits and customer satisfaction. The top executives of British Airways credited the formation of a more ambidextrous culture and leadership with the company's improved performance.\n\nModerators exist in the relationship between organizational ambidexterity and organizational outcomes. Environmental dynamism and competitiveness moderate the relationship between exploitation/ exploration and performance (Levinthal & March, 1993; Lewin, Long & Carroll, 1999). Empirical studies also showed that pursuing exploratory innovation is more effective in dynamic environments, whereas pursuing exploitative innovation is more beneficial to a unit's financial performance in more competitive environments (Jansen, van den Bosch, & Volberda, 2006). Although they were not directly testing an ambidextrous orientation, results indicated a positive performance effect of simultaneously pursuing exploitative and exploratory innovation under high dynamic and competitive environments. The effects of exploitative, explorative and balanced corporate alignment activities on performance were compared under varying environmental conditions (Raisch & Hotz, 2008). The construct of \"environmental munificence\" was developed to reflect an organization's opportunities and dynamism (Zahra, 1993). They found that, although exploration was positively related to performance under high environmental munificence, a balanced orientation failed to significantly affect performance in times of low environmental munificence (Raisch & Hotz, 2008).\n\nMarket orientation was also proved to moderate the relationship between exploitation/ exploration and performance. Market orientation was defined as \"the capability to generate, disseminate, and respond to intelligence pertaining to current and future customers\" (Kohli & Jaworski, 1990). A longitudinal study by Kyriakopoulos and Moorman (2004) showed that market orientation positively moderates the impact of pursuing high levels of exploitative and exploratory marketing strategies on new product performance; however, firms that pursue an ambidextrous orientation without strong market orientation display a significant reduction in new product financial performance.\n\nAnother factor that may moderate ambidexterity's effect on performance is firm resources (Kyriakopoulos & Moorman, 2004). Firms with rich resources have the ability to exploit and explore simultaneously, whereas firms with less resources may not be able to afford such a complex strategy. Similarly, Lubatkin et al. stated that small firms \"lack the amount of slack resources and the kind of hierarchical administration systems that can help or impede larger firms in managing their contradictory knowledge processes and, thus, affect the attainment of ambidexterity\" (p. 647). This idea was supported by empirical evidence that small firms may benefit more from a one-sided orientation than from mixed strategies (Ebben & Johnson, 2005).\n\nBoundary conditions were also addressed on choosing between structural and contextual ambidexterity. For example, spatial separation was suggested as an appropriate solution for environments characterized by long periods of stability, disrupted by rare events of discontinuous change. Research also found that firms operating in dynamic competitive environments rely on contextual ambidexterity rather than developing spatially separated units (Jansen, van den Bosch, & Volberda, 2005).\n\nThe functional definition of ambidexterity was originally used to describe organizations, but recently this concept was extended to multiple organizational levels, including individuals, teams, and leaders. On the most general level, the concept of ambidexterity implies successfully managing the dichotomy of explorative variability creation and exploitative variability reduction.\n\nWhenever there are needs to be both explorative and exploitive, conflict occurs (Bledow, Frese, Anderson, Erez, & Farr, 2009). That's when ambidexterity is necessary. Actually, regulating the conflicting demands of innovation is not only a challenge for the upper echelon of an organization but also a phenomenon that spans all levels of an organization. Employees as individuals, collectives of employees such as work teams, and the organization as a whole all have to find strategies to deal with conflicting demands in order to succeed in innovation and adaption to changing markets. Some examples of strategies and tactics that could be implemented at all three levels of analysis were also listed out (Bledow et al., 2009). These examples are presented in Table 1, including a separation strategy (in the Separation column) or an integration strategy (in the last two columns).\n\nRecently the focus on organizational ambidexterity has become more concentrated on how leaders act ambidextrously to achieve organizational ambidexterity. Senior managers may be the key for facilitating the context and social base for ambidexterity. Noting that ambidextrous organizations require significant amounts of mobilization, coordination, and integration activities to maintain both exploitation and exploration, informal and social integration of the senior team as well as the cross-functional interfaces of the formal organization contribute to the success of organizational ambidexterity significantly (Jansen, Tempelaar, van den Bosch, & Volberda, 2009). A recent model of ambidexterity and leadership suggests that CEOs and top management teams (TMT) play an integral role in establishing ambidexterity in small-to-medium-sized organizations (Cao, Simsek, & Zhang, 2010). The model suggests TMTs are where processes such as information sharing and knowledge processing, which influence ambidexterity, are likely to occur. Furthermore, it is the CEO who has the ability to access the most valuable and diverse information needed to avoid separation of explorative and exploitative behaviors. The greater the interface between TMTs and CEOs in small-to-medium-sized organizations, the greater the amount of ambidexterity.\n\nThe concept of ambidexterity was first formally introduced into the leadership area by the Rosing, Frese and Bausch (2011) paper, holding the idea that leaders should be able to lead their team to match the complexity and the pace of innovation (Ancona, Goodman, Lawrence, & Tushman, 2001). Ambidextrous leadership was defined as the leaders’ ability to foster both explorative and exploitative behaviors in followers by increasing or reducing variance in their behavior and flexibly switching between those behaviors (Rosing et al., 2011).\n\nThe construct of ambidextrous leadership has also been linked to the combination of leadership styles (Jansen et al., 2009). Leaders who are transformational encourage \"out of the box thinking\", information sharing and question assumptions.Transformational leaders promote exploration and innovative thinking. Transactional leaders focus on making incremental improvements and making the best use of existing process. The transactional leadership style promotes exploitative behaviors. An ambidextrous leader is able to switch back and forth between transformation/exploration and transaction/exploitation as needed, in other words, being able to switch between different leadership styles at the appropriate time, in order to foster innovation and then implement plans. Ambidextrous leadership consists of three elements (1) opening leader behaviors to foster exploration, (2) closing leader behaviors to foster exploitation, (3) and the temporal flexibility to switch between both as the situation requires (Rosing et al., 2011). Opening leadership behaviors include: allowing for multiple ways to accomplish a task, experimentation and errors, whereas closing behaviors include; monitoring routines, sticking to plans and minimizing errors. The Rosing et al. (2011)'s model of leadership and innovation was shown in Figure 1.\n\nSome scholars as well as practitioners have argued that established companies simply lack the flexibility to explore new territories. One contributing reason could be the so-called success trap (i.e. the focus on their, historically successful, current business activities) (Walrave, Van Oorschot, & Romme, 2011). A possible solution for big companies is to adopt a venture capital model – funding exploratory expeditions but otherwise not interfering too much with their operations. Another suggestion is for the use of cross-functional teams to achieve breakthrough innovations. Still others have suggested that a company may be able to alternate between different organizational models, focusing on exploitation and exploration at different time periods. For example, in a study of biotechnology firms it is shown how an organization's management control system can be adjusted periodically to achieve this changing focus on exploitation and exploration. Researchers also debate if ambidexterity can be attained because exploration and exploitation tend to emerge from contradictory information and knowledge inputs and because success due to exploration/exploitation tends to be self-reinforcing leading to the use of the same methods in the future. An empirical study of ambidexterity in organizations (He & Wong, 2004) further cautions that very low levels of both exploration and exploitation are not sufficient to contribute to superior firm performance. High firm performance may however need to be sustained through continuous exploitation both on the market side, through business model innovation and technology innovation.\n\nAmbidexterity can also be hampered by employee desire to receive organizational rewards. If organizations base their evaluation and reward systems on the completion of routine tasks, employees will be more likely to conform to standardized procedures. To avoid hindering ambidexterity, organizations should be sure to reward innovative thinking as well as completion of routine tasks.\n\nDespite the controversy surrounding the possibility of organizational ambidexterity, it is likely to continue to be a highly researched concept in the future. Future research is likely to focus on the role of ambidextrous leaders, ambidextrous teams and the social context of organizational ambidexterity. (Rosing et al., 2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45622209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45622209", "title": "American business history", "text": "American business history\n\nThe New England region's economy grew steadily over the entire colonial era, despite the lack of a staple crop that could be exported. All the provinces and many towns as well, tried to foster economic growth by subsidizing projects that improved the infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, inns and ferries. They gave bounties and subsidies or monopolies to sawmills, grist mills, iron mills, pulling mills (which treated cloth), salt works and glassworks. Most important, colonial legislatures set up a legal system that was conducive to business enterprise by resolving disputes, enforcing contracts, and protecting property rights. Hard work and entrepreneurship characterized the region, as the Puritans and Yankees endorsed the \"Protestant Ethic\", which enjoined men to work hard as part of their divine calling.\n\nThe federal government under President George Washington and Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton strongly promoted business enterprise in the 1790s. He had a vision of an industrial nation, based on the strength of urban America.\n\nWashington himself was business-oriented, and was involved in numerous projects to develop transportation and access to Western lands.\n\nOrganized banking began on a small scale after the American Revolution, with a few private banks in Boston and New York, such as the Bank of North America.\n\nAt Hamilton's initiative, and over the opposition of Thomas Jefferson, Congress set up the privately owned First Bank of the United States (BUS) to provide a uniform financial system for the 13 states.\n\nThe BUS handled national finances, tax receipts and government expenditures, and funded the national debt. Increasingly became involved in lending to business, and especially assisting new local banks in unifying the national monetary and financial system. Jefferson supporters never stop complaining of the dangers provided by the special interests behind a private national Bank, and block the renewal of its charter in 1811. The bank closed, and the government had enormous difficulty in financing the War of 1812. President James Madison, despite his Jeffersonian heritage of anti-banking rhetoric, realized the need for a replacement, and the Second Bank of the United States was opened in 1816. It flourished, promoting a strong financial system across the country, until it was challenged and destroyed by President Andrew Jackson, Jefferson's successor, in the Bank War of 1832. During the Civil War, the Lincoln administration strongly supported banking, making it attractive for local banks to invest in federal bonds, which could then be used to set up a local national bank. The nation operated without any supervising national bank until 1913, when the Federal Reserve System was created.\n\nBoston remained the dominant business center in New England, and its entrepreneurs pushed west to Chicago and San Francisco. The Boston Associates were merchants who took their fortunes made in world trade, and concentrated on building factory towns near Boston, most famously Lowell. By 1845, there were 31 textile companies—located in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and southern Maine—produced one-fifth of all cotton and wool textiles in the United States. With the capital earned through these mills, they invested in railroads, especially the Boston and Lowell. These railroads helped transport the cotton from warehouses to factories. These Boston-based investors established banks—such as the Suffolk Bank—and invested in others. In time, they controlled 40% of banking capital in Boston, 40% of all insurance capital in Massachusetts, and 30% of Massachusetts' railroads. Tens of thousands of New Englanders received employment from these investors, working in any one of the hundreds of their mills.\n\nIn the South, by far the major business center was Baltimore, Maryland. It had a large port to handle imports and exports, and a large hinterland that included the tobacco regions of Maryland and Virginia. It dominated the flour trade. Alexander Brown (1764–1834) arrived in 1800 and set up a linen business and his firm Alex. Brown & Sons expanded into cotton and shipping, with branches in Liverpool, England, Philadelphia, and New York. The firm Helped finance the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad to tap its own hinterland as far as Pennsylvania and Ohio. Brown was a business innovator after 1819 when cash and short credits became the norms of business relations. By concentrating his capital in small-risk ventures and acquiring ships and stock in the Second Bank of the United States he came to monopolize Baltimore's shipping trade with Liverpool by 1822. Brown next expanded into packet ships, extended his lines to Philadelphia, and began financing Baltimore importers, specializing in merchant banking from the late 1820s to his death in 1834. The emergence of a money economy and the growth of the Anglo-American cotton trade allowed him to escape Baltimore's declining position in trans-Atlantic trade. His most important innovation was the drawing up of his own bills of exchange. By 1830 his company rivaled the Bank of the United States in the American foreign exchange markets, and the transition from the \"traditional\" to the \"modern\" merchant was nearly complete. It became the nation's first investment banking.\n\nBaltimore faced economic stagnation unless it opened routes to the western states, as New York had done with the Erie Canal in 1820. In 1827, twenty-five merchants and bankers studied the best means of restoring \"that portion of the Western trade which has recently been diverted from it by the introduction of steam navigation.\" Their answer was to build a railroad—one of the first commercial lines in the world. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) became the first important American railroad. Some 20,000 investors purchased $5 million in stock to import the rolling stock and build the line. It was a commercial and financial success, and invented many new managerial methods that became standard practice in railroading and modern business. The B&O became the first company to operate a locomotive built in America, with the \"Tom Thumb\" in 1829. It built the first passenger and freight station (Mount Clare in 1829) and was the first railroad that earned passenger revenues (December 1829), and published a timetable (May 23, 1830). On December 24, 1852, it became the first rail line to reach the Ohio River from the eastern seaboard. The B&O railroad was merged into CSX in 1987.\n\nRailroads had a dramatic large-scale impact on American business in five dimensions.\n\nFirst they provided a highly efficient network for shipping freight and passengers across a large national market. The result was a transforming impact on most sectors of the economy including manufacturing, retail and wholesale, agriculture and finance. Supplemented with the telegraph that added rapid communications, the United States now had an integrated national market practically the size of Europe, with no internal barriers or tariffs, all supported by a common language, and financial system and a common legal system. The railroads at first supplemented, then largely replaced the previous transportation modes of turnpikes and canals, rivers and intracoastal ocean traffic. The late 19th century pipelines were added, and in the 20th century trucking and aviation.\n\nRailroads financing provided the basis of the private (non-governmental) financial system. Construction of railroads was far more expensive than factories or canals. The famous Erie canal, 300 miles long in upstate New York, cost $7 million of state money, which was about what private investors spent on one short railroad in Western Massachusetts. A new steamboat on the Hudson, Mississippi, Missouri, or Ohio rivers cost about the same as one mile of track.\n\nIn 1860, the combined total of railroad stocks and bonds was $1.8 billion; 1897 it reached $10.6 billion (compared to a total national debt of $1.2 billion).\nFunding came from financiers throughout the Northeast, and from Europe, especially Britain. The federal government provided no cash to any other railroads. However it did provide unoccupied free land to some of the Western railroads, so they could sell it to farmers and have customers along the route. Some cash came from states, or from local governments that use money as a leverage to prevent being bypassed by the main line. Larger sound came from the southern states during the Reconstruction era, as they try to rebuild their destroyed rail system. Some states such as Maine and Texas also made land grants to local railroads; the state total was 49 million acres. The emerging American financial system was based on railroad bonds. Boston was the first center, but New York by 1860 was the dominant financial market. The British invested heavily in railroads around the world, but nowhere more so than the United States; The total came to about $3 billion by 1914. In 1914-1917, they liquidated their American assets to pay for war supplies.\n\nThe third dimension was in designing complex managerial systems that could handle far more complicated simultaneous relationships than could be dreamed of by the local factory owner who could patrol every part of his own factory in a matter of hours. Civil engineers became the senior management of railroads. The leading innovators were the Western Railroad of Massachusetts and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in the 1840s, the Erie in the 1850s and the Pennsylvania in the 1860s.\n\nAfter a serious accident, the Western Railroad of Massachusetts put in place a system of responsibility for district managers and dispatchers keep track of all train movement. Discipline was essential—everyone had to follow the rules exactly to prevent accidents. Decision-making powers had to be distributed to ensure safety and to juggle the complexity of numerous trains running in both directions on a single track, keeping to schedules that could easily be disrupted by weather mechanical breakdowns, washouts or hitting a wandering cow. As the lines grew longer with more and more business originating at dozens of different stations, the Baltimore and Ohio set up more complex system that separated finances from daily operations. The Erie Railroad, faced with growing competition, had to make lower bids for freight movement, and had to know on a daily basis how much each train was costing them. Statistics was the weapon of choice. By the 1860s, the Pennsylvania Railroad—the largest in the world—was making further advances in using bureaucracy under John Edgar Thomson, president 1852-1874. He divided the system into several geographical divisions, which each reported daily to a general superintendent in Philadelphia. All the American railroads copied each other in the new managerial advances, and by the 1870s emerging big businesses in the industrial field likewise copied the railroad model.\n\nThe fourth dimension was in management of the workforce, both blue-collar workers and white-collar workers. Railroading became a career in which young men entered at about age 18 to 20, and spent their entire lives usually with the same line. Young men could start working on the tracks, become a fireman, and work his way up the engineer. The mechanical world of the roundhouses have their own career tracks. A typical career path would see a young man hired at age 18 as a shop laborer, be promoted to skilled mechanic at age 24, brakemen at 25, freight conductor at 27, and passenger conductor at age 57. Women were not hired.\n\nWhite-collar careers paths likewise were delineated. Educated young men started in clerical or statistical work and moved up to station agents or bureaucrats at the divisional or central headquarters. At each level they had more and more knowledge experience and human capital. They were very hard to replace, and were virtually guaranteed permanent jobs and provided with insurance and medical care. Hiring, firing and wage rates were set not by foreman, but by central administrators, in order to minimize favoritism and personality conflicts. Everything was by the book, and increasingly complex set of rules told everyone exactly what they should do it every circumstance, and exactly what their rank and pay would be. Young men who were first hired in the 1840s and 1850s retired from the same railroad 40 or 50 years later. To discourage them from leaving for another company, they were promised pensions when they retired. Indeed, the railroads invented the American pension system.\n\nAmerica developed a love-hate relationship with railroads. Boosters in every city worked feverishly to make sure the railroad came through, knowing their urban dreams depended upon it. The mechanical size, scope and efficiency of the railroads made a profound impression; people who dressed in their Sunday best to go down to the terminal to watch the train come in. David Nye argues that:\n\nTravel became much easier, cheaper and more common. Shoppers from small towns could make day trips to big city stores. Hotels, resorts and tourist attractions were built to accommodate the demand. The realization that anyone could buy a ticket for a thousand-mile trip was empowering. Historians Gary Cross and Rick Szostak argue:\n\nThe engineers became model citizens, bringing their can-do spirit and their systematic work effort to all phases of the economy as well as local and national government. By 1910, major cities were building magnificent palatial railroad stations, such as the Pennsylvania Station in New York City, and the Union Station in Washington DC.\n\nBut there was also a dark side. As early as the 1830s, novelists and poets began fretting that the railroads would destroy the rustic attractions of the American landscape. By the 1840s concerns were rising about terrible accidents when speeding trains crashed into helpless wooden carriages. By the 1870s, railroads were vilified by Western farmers who absorbed the Granger movement theme that monopolistic carriers controlled too much pricing power, and that the state legislatures had to impose maximum prices. Local merchants and shippers supported the demand and got some \"Granger Laws\" passed. Anti-railroad complaints were loudly repeated in late 19th century political rhetoric. The idea of establishing a strong rate fixing federal body was achieved during the Progressive Era, primarily by a coalition of shipping interests. Railroad historians mark the Hepburn Act of 1906 that gave the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) the power to set maximum railroad rates as a damaging blow to the long-term profitability and growth of railroads. After 1910 the lines faced an emerging trucking industry to compete with for freight, and automobiles and buses to compete for passenger service.\n\nGeneral stores, and itinerant peddlers, dominated in rural America until the coming of the automobile after 1910. Farmers and ranchers depended on general stores that had a limited stock and slow turnover; they made enough profit to stay in operation by selling at high prices. Often farmers would barter butter, cheese, eggs, vegetables or other foods which the merchant would resell. Prices were not marked on each item; instead the customer negotiated a price. Men did most of the shopping, since the main criterion was credit rather than quality of goods. Indeed, most customers shopped on credit, paying off the bill when crops, hogs or cattle were later sold; the owner's ability to judge credit worthiness was vital to his success. The store was typically a gathering point for local men to chat, pass around the weekly newspaper, and talk politics.\n\nIn the South the general store was especially important after the Civil War, as the merchant was one of the few sources of seasonal credit available until the cash crops (usually cotton or tobacco) were harvested in the fall. There were very few nearby towns, so rural general stores and itinerant peddlers were the main sources of supply.\n\nIn the small cities consumers had more choices, usually purchasing dry goods and supplies at locally owned department store. Sometimes entrepreneurs opened stores in nearby cities, as did the Goldwater family in Arizona. They had a much wider selection of goods than in the country general stores and price tags that gave the actual selling price. Department stores provided limited credit, and set up attractive displays and, after 1900, window displays as well. Their clerks—usually men before the 1940s—were experienced salesmen whose knowledge of the products appealed to the better educated middle-class women who did most of the shopping. The keys to success were a large variety of high-quality brand-name merchandise, high turnover, reasonable prices, and frequent special sales. The larger stores sent their buyers to Chicago or other big wholesale centers once or twice a year to evaluate the newest trends in merchandising and stock up on the latest fashions. By the 1920s and 1930s, large mail-order houses such as Sears, Roebuck & Co. and Montgomery Ward provided serious competition. In response the local department stores came to rely even more on salesmanship as well as close integration with the community. See List of defunct department stores of the United States.\n\nIn every large city department stores appeared in the mid-19th century aimed at affluent women customers. They followed a model that originated in London and Paris, but all the major department stores quickly copied new features from each other. In New York City in 1862, Alexander Turney Stewart built a store on a full city block with eight floors and nineteen departments of dress goods and furnishing materials, carpets, glass and china, toys and sports equipment, ranged around a central glass-covered court. His innovations included buying from manufacturers for cash and in large quantities, keeping his markup small and prices low, truthful presentation of merchandise, the one-price policy (so there was no haggling), simple merchandise returns and cash refund policy, selling for cash and not credit, buyers who searched worldwide for quality merchandise, departmentalization, vertical and horizontal integration, volume sales, and free services for customers such as waiting rooms and free delivery of purchases. Beauty and elegance were central themes, the department stores hired attractive upscale young women to deal with the customers, while the back rooms the men made practically all the decisions.\n\nUntil now retail stores involved customers giving orders to clerks who assembled merchandise. Self-service, whereby the customer roamed the aisles and picked out what she wanted, was innovation in the early 20th century that made possible supermarket grocery chains and other forms of chain stores. Clarence Saunders (1881-1953) launched the self-service revolution with his Piggly Wiggly store in Memphis, Tennessee in 1916. The store depended on personal shopping baskets, branded products, and checkouts at the front. A critical ingredient was the educated consumer who had familiarized herself with brand-name products and prices. By 1922, Piggly Wiggly had opened 1,200 stores in 29 states. Saunders, however, went bankrupt through speculation on Wall Street in 1923. By 1932, the chain had grown to 2,660 stores doing over $180 million annually. The stores were either owned by the firm and franchised. The success encouraged imitators, including Handy Andy stores, Helpy Selfy stores, Mick-or-Mack stores and Jitney Jungle, all of which operated under patented systems. During Great Depression, chain stores became the targets of angry local merchants, who secured the Robinson–Patman Act of 1936; it was a federal law that required all retailers to charge the same price for certain items.\n\nBy 1900 the advertising agency had become the focal point of creative planning, and advertising was firmly established as a profession. At first, agencies were brokers for advertisement space in newspapers. N. W. Ayer & Son was the first full-service agency to assume responsibility for advertising content. N.W. Ayer opened in 1869, and was located in Philadelphia. In 1893, 104 companies spent over $50,000 each on national advertising. Most sold patent medicines, which faded away after the federal food and drug legislation of the early 20th century. Seven innovators had emerged in the big time: Quaker Oats, Armour meat, Cudahy meat, American Tobacco Company, P. Lorillard tobacco, Remington Typewriters, and Procter & Gamble soap. By 1914, two thirds of the top advertisers came from just five industries: 14 food producers, 13 in automobiles and tires, nine in soap and cosmetics, and four in tobacco. Agencies were forever breaking up and reforming, especially when one executive would split taking with him a major client and his team of copywriters.\n\nAdvertising increased dramatically in the United States after 1900 as industrialization expanded the supply of manufactured products to a very large market. In order to profit from this higher rate of production, industry needed to recruit workers as consumers of factory products. It did so through the invention of mass marketing designed to influence the population's economic behavior on a larger scale. Total advertising volume in the United States grew from about $200 million in 1880 to nearly $3 billion in 1920.\n\nThe nadir of race relations was reached in the early 20th century, in terms of political and legal rights. Blacks were increasingly segregated. However the more they were cut off from the larger white community, the more black entrepreneurs succeeded in establishing flourishing businesses that catered to a black clientele. In urban areas, North and South, the size and income of the black population was growing, providing openings for a wide range of businesses, from barbershops to insurance companies. Undertakers had a special niche, and often played a political role.\n\nHistorian Juliet Walker calls 1900-1930 the \"Golden age of black business.\" According to the National Negro Business League, the number black-owned businesses doubled from 20,000 1900 and 40,000 in 1914. There were 450 undertakers in 1900 and, rising to 1000. Drugstores rose from 250 to 695. Local retail merchants – most of them quite small – jumped from 10,000 to 25,000. One of the most famous entrepreneurs was Madame C.J. Walker (1867-1919); she built a national franchise business called Madame C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company based on her invention of the first successful hair straightening process.\n\nCollege president Booker T. Washington (1856-1915), who ran the National Negro Business League was the most prominent promoter of black business. He moved from city to city to sign up local entrepreneurs into his national network the National Negro Business League.\n\nAlthough black business flourished in urban areas, it was severely handicapped in the rural South where the great majority of blacks lived. Blacks were farmers who depended on one cash crop, typically cotton or tobacco. They chiefly traded with local white merchants. The primary reason was that the local country stores provided credit, that is the provided supplies the farm and family needed, including tools, seeds, food and clothing, on a credit basis until the bill was paid off at harvest time. Black businessmen had too little access to credit to enter this business. Indeed, there were only a small number of wealthy blacks ; overwhelmingly they were real estate speculators in the fast-growing cities, such as Robert Reed Church in Memphis.\n\nNumerous smaller companies when operation before the Civil War the British innovation of making inexpensive steel, which is much stronger than traditional ironwork, cause the radical transformation. Young Andrew Carnegie (1835–1919) was a key leader. He was not an engineer, but he gave experts in the mills in Pitsburgh their lead, and he moved to New York City to sell large quantities of steel for the new bridges, railways and skyscrapers. By 1890 Carnegie Steel was the world's largest manufacturer of pig iron, steel rails, and coke. In 1888, Carnegie bought the rival Homestead Steel Works, which included an extensive plant served by tributary coal and iron fields, a 425-mile (685 km) long railway, and a line of lake steamships. Consolidation came in 1892 through the Carnegie Steel Company. By 1889, American output of steel exceeded that of Britain, and Carnegie owned a large part of it. By 1900, the profits of Carnegie Bros. & Company alone stood at $40,000,000 with $25,000,000 being Carnegie's share. Carnegie's empire grew to include the J. Edgar Thomson Steel Works, Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Works, the Lucy Furnaces, the Union Iron Mills, the Union Mill (Wilson, Walker & County), the Keystone Bridge Works, the Hartman Steel Works, the Frick Coke Company, and the Scotia ore mines. Carnegie, through Keystone, supplied the steel for and owned shares in the landmark Eads Bridge project across the Mississippi River in St. Louis, Missouri (completed 1874). This project was an important proof-of-concept for steel technology which marked the opening of a new steel market.\n\nU.S. Steel was the iconic billion-dollar industrial corporation. It was formed by banker J. P. Morgan (1837-1913) and lawyer Elbert H. Gary (1846-1927) in 1901 by combining the Carnegie Steel Company with Gary's Federal Steel Company, and several smaller concerns. Carnegie permanently left industry to become a philanthropist on a global basis, and judge Gary ran the operation. In 1907, it received federal permission to buy out its largest competitor, the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Company, To end a panic on Wall Street. It escaped prosecution for monopoly by arguing it had never engaged in any illegal monopolistic practices. But it was classes, and year-by-year watched its share of the market decline has been competitors entered the steel industry to provide warships, building materials and supply railroad same consumer products. By 1902 U.S. Steel made 67 percent of all the steel produced in the United States. One hundred years later, it accounted for only 8 percent of domestic consumption.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21232723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21232723", "title": "Bestshoring", "text": "Bestshoring\n\nBestshoring, also known as rightshoring, is the process of identifying the best location to move manufacturing, IT or business processes for a company. The decision is to be based on quantifiable criteria which are intended to take subjective and political input out of the decision cycle. Many companies use external consulting firms to make these decisions.\n\nOn August 1, 2004, Hillary Clinton wrote an article explaining why bestshoring beats outsourcing. Her argument is that \"Foreign labor isn't as cheap as it seems.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43999623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43999623", "title": "Bottleneck (production)", "text": "Bottleneck (production)\n\nIn production and project management, a bottleneck is one process in a chain of processes, such that its limited capacity reduces the capacity of the whole chain. The result of having a bottleneck are stalls in production, supply overstock, pressure from customers and low employee morale. There are both short and long-term bottlenecks. Short-term bottlenecks are temporary and are not normally a significant problem. An example of a short-term bottleneck would be a skilled employee taking a few days off. Long-term bottlenecks occur all the time and can cumulatively significantly slow down production. An example of a long-term bottleneck is when a machine is not efficient enough and as a result has a long queue.\n\nAn example is the lack of smelter and refinery supply which cause bottlenecks upstream.\n\nAnother example is in a surface-mount technology board assembly line with several pieces of equipment aligned. Usually the common sense is driven to set up and shift the bottleneck element towards the end of the process, inducing the better and faster machines to always keep the printed circuit board (PCB) supply flowing up, never allowing the slower ones to fully stop, a fact that would be heeded as a deleterious and significant overall drawback on the process.\n\nAlmost every system has a bottleneck, even if it is a minor one, if every system was running at full capacity, at least one machine would be accumulating processes. Identifying bottlenecks is critical for improving efficiency in the production line because it allows you to determine the area where accumulation occurs. The machine or process that accumulates the longest queue is usually a bottleneck, however this isn't always the case. Bottlenecks can be found through: identifying the areas where accumulation occurs, evaluating the throughput, assessing whether each machine is being used at full capacity and finding the machine with the high wait time.\n\nWhen input comes in faster than the speed of the process, accumulation starts to occur. This means that the machine either does not have enough capacity, is not being fully utilized (inefficient in use) or has an under-qualified operator. This method is not effective at identifying bottlenecks where the queues are at several process steps, as there are multiple processes with accumulation.\n\nSince the production line is directly linked to the output of the machines, it allows for the identifying of the main bottleneck in the manufacturing process. In changing each machines throughput, it will be possible to assess which machine affects the overall output the most, and hence determine the bottleneck in the chain of processes.\n\nBy using the utilization percentage of each production unit, it is possible to determine the machine which uses the highest percentage of its capacity. This machine is bottlenecking the other machines by 'forcing' them to operate at a lower capacity. However, if all machines in the chain of processes are running at a similar capacity level, increasing the capacity of the lowest machine will not create a significant improvement to the total output.\n\nIn the case where several production units are already running at full capacity, tracking the down time of machines will allow you to identify which machine is being bottlenecked. Usually the machine prior the machine with the highest wait or down time in the chain of processes is a bottleneck. The result of this is a machine being under utilized.\nA fishbone diagram is a graphical means for finding possible problems in a chain of processes. By collecting the different data related to the problem, and inputting them into the diagram, it becomes easier to analyze the data in the order it used and hence determine the root of the problem. This is commonly used to find the bottleneck in a chain of processes due to being able to pinpoint the machine precisely responsible for the delay in production.\n\nThe consequences of having bottlenecks in production are possible stalls in production, supply overstock, fall in employee morale and loss of customers. Bottlenecks can result in the overloading of a machine. Overloading a machine can lead to the machinery getting damaged or worn out and result of this would be potential stretches of downtime in the long term.\n\nA stall in production would be the result of one machine slowing down the entire chain of processes and consistently leaving the other machines unable to continue while it accumulates a large queue. This inefficiency significantly slows down production as many resources such as time, people and machines are being paid to wait.\n\nIn the event of accumulation in the long-term, the capacity at which the bottlenecked machine is running could be so slow that the accumulated resources that are in the queue need to be stored. The cost of storing resources is significant as it takes resources to transport the materials back and forth as well as requiring space, another potential cost.\n\nThe result of bottlenecks could require more work from employees as well as longer hours. In addition, there's the factor of stress and frustration with the bottlenecked machine and its operator. This could result in loss of efficiency as employees may not be very motivated to work.\n\nOnce the bottleneck has been identified, assessing the degree of the bottleneck is crucial for determining how to manage the bottleneck. The bottleneck could be either minor or severe. Minor bottlenecks may not need to be immediately addressed, whereas severe bottlenecks should be dealt with immediately. There are several ways to eliminate bottlenecks. Some means of doing so are: Adding resources to the bottleneck operation (more people), minimising downtime, eliminate non-value activities, investing in more machinery which completes the same action and optimising the bottlenecks operation. Other sources similarly suggest that once the bottleneck has been identified it is best to ensure it is well maintained, to provide a constant buffer stock upstream of the bottleneck, to reduce time wasted in set ups and changeovers and to train more operators for the bottlenecked machines. These are further explained below. Having production scheduling to optimise efficiency is another means of effectively utilising the bottlenecked machine. This minimises the possibility for the situation where the production quota is not met. Scheduling also reduces the number of situations where production is halted due to a lack of personnel, due to increased organisation and greater planned out production. It also allows for the full advantage of the time available to be taken as pockets of time can be found to keep the machine running for as many hours as possible in a week.\n\nIncreasing the number of operators or increasing the number of staff can be beneficial for multiple reasons. Increasing the number of operators can increase efficiency as they can all work different timed shifts and hence the bottlenecked machine can run for longer hours. In addition, if one worker is sick, unable to work or quits, there will always be someone available to replace him. Increasing the number of employees can be beneficial to increasing efficiency. This is because they can be reassigned to work on parts of the bottlenecked machines operations which can be broken down into smaller activities and reassigned to reduce the work load of the machine hence reducing the accumulation. By reassigning other work to different machines, the less accumulation or delay the bottlenecked machine has and hence significantly speeds up production as it also reduces the wait time of the machines farther along the chain of processes to increase productivity.\n\nTo compensate for being the weakest link in the chain of processes, the bottleneck machine will have to run for longer periods of time. Changeover and setup time should be minimised to allow the machines to run for slightly longer, reducing the impact of the bottleneck. Minimising downtime by having the bottlenecked machines run from earlier until later is a common strategy for working around the problem, however this does increase the likelihood for the machine to be overloaded and need regular maintenance.\n\nIn removing all non-value activities, you reduce the amount of redundant tasks performed by the bottlenecked machine and hence maximize efficiency. Removing the waste operations results in a shorter cycle time hence allowing the machine to complete each process in less time.\n\nIn order to optimise the usage of the machine, the machine should be kept running for as long as possible and hence should never have to wait for materials or stock to increase productivity. This can be achieved by putting a buffer stock in place so that the machine always has some task it can be doing. The down side to that inventory space will be needed to store the buffer for when the machine before it in the chain of processes is working.\n\nPreventing bottlenecks would be ideal to avoid having to manage and resolve them in the future. There are ways to work around them when planning the production environment. Giving employees free rein over minor decision making will allow them to make the decision they feel is most efficient, and being operators of the machine, their experience will allow them to become specialised in the use of the machine over time. Cross-training employees will increase adaptability in the production line and hence reduce potential downtime in the future. Hiring high performance employees will reduce the possibility for bottlenecks to be formed by underperforming employees who are inefficient at using their assigned machinery. Planning for a higher potential output when designing the production environment is crucial in the long run for occurrences of larger orders when there is need to run all the machinery. Having all the machinery running at full capacity is not always ideal due to situations where malfunctions occur and production is halted. Having inspiring leaders who having a strong understanding in how to keep production smooth will allow greater control of all the different processes in the chain of production. Taking into account the layout of the different processes can also increase efficiency as it minimises delay caused in the transportation stage. The use of a proper layout can reduce the overhead of machines and can reduce material handling time.\n\nEstablishment of standardized exchanged protocols can minimise the potential for future bottlenecks to occur through minimising down time. This increases efficiency by reducing any potential confusion between different sectors and hence reduces the possibility for delays of the arrival of raw materials.\n\nA static bottleneck is where no random or unexpected fluctuations occur which would happen during either a changeover or a breakdown of the system. A static system does not change in behavior and hence the system stays constant. Finding a bottleneck in a static system is very simple, it is simply the machine or process with the longest constant cycle time. Static systems do not exist in reality as no matter what, there will always be a slight fluctuation in cycle time. This is because there is no way to prevent any fluctuation from occurring to slow the system down. An example of this could be a power shortage or a natural disaster. The behavior of any system is liable to any random event and hence all systems are dynamic. Dynamic systems can be divided into two main groups: Stable and unstable. The significant difference in the context of dynamic systems, is that the bottlenecks can shift. The speed of which a bottleneck shifts depending on the buffer between the processes. Bottlenecks shift when its location of work center in the production area changes, and this leads to control problems due to the significant delay in output. Shifting bottlenecks are a result of inevitable unexpected events for which no planning is possible.\n\nThe steps suggested to avoid or prevent shifting bottlenecks are:\n\nStep 1) Re-evaluate the maximum load of every machine, process or work center when accepting a new order.\n\nStep 2) Find the bottleneck in the system and identify its surplus capacity.\n\nStep 3) Fill the bottlenecks surplus capacity.\n\nStep 4) Find out the release time of the material as a result of the new bottlenecks scheduling.\n\nThrough following these steps, the order production will be completed in the shortest possible time frame.\n\n"}
{"id": "13551750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13551750", "title": "Brainsworking", "text": "Brainsworking\n\nBrainsworking refers to a strategy in business development, based on the capacity to transfer knowledge from wide and diverse fields of experience, connect them and create entirely new and innovative results with the goal to foster sustainable business development (which also includes personal development, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation). The concept, a word play on brains and networking, has been created by Austrian entrepreneur and Chief networking officer Selma Prodanovic.\n\nThe concept includes the ability to use networking intelligence and connected thinking skills in sharing and creating new knowledge in fostering development. Brainsworking understands networking as going beyond contact collection, but rather as interacting visions and ideas. It can also be used as a tool for sustainable human development, as it builds on the fact that each human being is unique and has a unique competitive advantage to bring into the knowledge exchange network and contribute to sustainable progress in that way.\n"}
{"id": "38935938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38935938", "title": "Business Anti-Corruption Portal", "text": "Business Anti-Corruption Portal\n\nThe Business Anti-Corruption Portal (BACP) is a one-stop shop for business anti-corruption information offering tools on how to mitigate risks and costs of corruption when doing business abroad. All the information on the Portal is produced by GAN Integrity Solutions, a Denmark-based IT & Professional Services firm. The Portal was established in 2006 and is supported by the European Commission and a number of European governments.\n\nThe BACP is referred to by several government and non-government organisations, amongst others, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the United Nations, the OECD Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC), and the World Bank. In addition, the BACP is the only externally cited tool for anti-corruption risk assessment in the UK Bribery Act 2010 Quick Start Guide. The BACP is listed in the UN Global Compact Anti-Corruption Tools Inventory as an effective resource to help companies address and implement the 10th principle: \"Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.\"\n\nThe Business Anti-Corruption Portal is funded by five European governments and the EU Commission. The five governments are:\n\nThe BACP offers relevant business analysis of corruption risks and legislative framework in over 100 countries across 6 regions: Europe & Central Asia, South Asia, East Asia & the Pacific, Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle-East & North Africa, and the Americas. The 33 European country profiles are funded with financial support from the Prevention of and Fight against Crime Programme by the European Commission. Each country profile contains the following information:\n\n\nAll the information and sources used for creating the country profiles are publicly available, and the team behind GAN Integrity Solutions updates the country profiles at least once a year. Other tools and information on the Portal are also maintained and updated on regular basis.\n\nThe Portal offers a number of tools that help companies to effectively manage corruption risk, such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38053091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38053091", "title": "Business History Review", "text": "Business History Review\n\nThe Business History Review is a scholarly quarterly published by Cambridge University Press for Harvard Business School. \"Business History Review\" is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of business history. It was established in 1954 by Harvard University Press as the continuation of the \"Bulletin of the Business Historical Society\".\n\nThe journal is one of the leading scholarly journals in the field of business history alongside \"Enterprise & Society\" and \"Business History\".\n\nThe \"Business History Review\" traces it origins to 1926 with the publication of Harvard’s \"Bulletin of the Business Historical Society\". The Bulletin aimed “to encourage and aid the study of the evolution of business in all periods and in all countries” and devoted much space to describing the growing archival collections of Harvard’s Baker Library. Henrietta Larson, whose \"Guide to Business History\" (1948) also documented the scope of available research materials, was editor from 1938 to 1953.\n\nIn 1954, the \"Bulletin\" changed its name to \"Business History Review\" and took its current format of publishing peer-reviewed research articles and book reviews. In these years, the intellectual framework of the field of business history was defined by the work of Alfred D. Chandler Jr., who published 11 research articles in the journal. One of the most popular (with 212 Google Scholar cites) was his 1959 piece “The Beginnings of ‘Big Business’ in American Industry,” which explored the question of why large, vertically integrated corporations were formed in the late nineteenth-century and why they took the structure they did. Another highly cited article (240 Google Scholar cites) from 1970 was “The Emerging Organizational Synthesis in American History” by Louis Galambos, which also focused on explaining the growth of bureaucratic structures in the United States.\n\nIn 1974, \"Business History Review\" published its first special issue on the multinational corporation. Included in the issue was an article on oil companies operating in South America by Mira Wilkins, who pioneered the field of international business history. The journal also expanded its focus beyond the workings of business enterprise to cover business-government relations. In 1975, Thomas K. McCraw, who edited the journal from 1994 to 2005, published “Regulation in America: A Review Article.” In 2011, the current editors, Walter A. Friedman and Geoffrey Jones (academic), listed the \"BHR\"'s core subjects as innovation, globalization, entrepreneurship, business and the environment, business and government, and business and democracy. In 2015, the journal had an impact factor of .625 (with a 5-year impact factor of .895) and was rated as a 4 by the British Academic Journal Guide (a 4* is the highest rating).\n\n"}
{"id": "21931960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21931960", "title": "Business Motivation Model", "text": "Business Motivation Model\n\nThe Business Motivation Model (BMM) in enterprise architecture provides a scheme and structure for developing, communicating, and managing business plans in an organized manner. Specifically, the Business Motivation Model does all of the following:\n\nInitially developed by the Business Rules Group (BRG), in September 2005, the Object Management Group (OMG) voted to accept the Business Motivation Model as the subject of a Request for Comment (RFC). This meant that the OMG was willing to consider the Business Motivation Model as a specification to be adopted by the OMG, subject to comment from any interested parties. Adoption as an OMG specification carries the intention that the Business Motivation Model would, in time, be submitted to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) as a standard.\n\nIn August 2008 version 1.0 was released by OMG.\n\nIn May 2015, version 1.3 of BMM specification was released and as of May 2015 it is the latest stable release.\n\n\"BMM captures business requirements across different dimensions to rigorously capture and justify why the business wants to do something, what it is aiming to achieve, how it plans to get there, and how it assesses the result.\"\n\nThe main elements of BMM are:\n\n\nOther related frameworks are \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8856056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8856056", "title": "Business acquisition", "text": "Business acquisition\n\nBusiness acquisition is the process of acquiring a company to build on strengths or weaknesses of the acquiring company. A merger is similar to an acquisition but refers more strictly to combining all of the interests of both companies into a stronger single company. The end result is to grow the business in a quicker and more profitable manner than normal organic growth would allow. \n\nThe process begins with defining the type of business that would make a good acquisition. Generally businesses within the same segment or a highly complementary market segment are targeted. Once defined the target business is approached and if interest is shown due diligence is performed to ascertain the financial and other conditions of the business.\n\nWhen the financial terms are agreed upon, and the contract is signed the merger portion of the acquisition begins. Overlapping processes, personnel and products are evaluated and the better-performing pieces are retained.\n\nA single acquisition refers to one company buying the assets and operations of another company and absorbing what is needed while simply discarding duplicated or unnecessary pieces of the acquired business. \"Split and sell\" acquisitions involve buying an entire business in order to gain one or two pieces of the business. The acquiring business may wish to retain the customer list and a product line, while moving manufacturing and other production related duties to an existing line. In this case the excess is often sold off to recapture some of the acquisition cost.\n\nBusinesses that use affiliates to sell and market their products may find themselves in the position of losing control of the marketing portion. This presents a danger as the entire business cycle is dependent on the sales cycle, which is now external to the business. In this scenario the acquiring business may be forced into paying a premium to the affiliate, to regain control of the process without upsetting current customers and cash flow. In rare instances the affiliate will gain so much influence that it can purchase the parent company.\n\nThere are many risks related to business acquisition and a number of mergers or acquisition fail ending up inducing higher operating costs. There are a set of criteria that are usually followed to know if a business is a good target for acquisition such as : having operative processes, a profitable and documented customer acquisition strategy, good profits, a good customer retention strategy, etc.\n"}
{"id": "33343400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33343400", "title": "Business correspondence", "text": "Business correspondence\n\nBusiness correspondence means the exchange of information in a written format for the process of business activities. Business correspondence can take place between organizations, within organizations or between the customers and the organization. The correspondence refers to the written communication between persons. Hence oral communication or face to face communication is not a business correspondance.\n\n\nBusiness letters are the most formal method of communication following specific formats. They are addressed to a particular person or organization. A good business letter follows the seven C's of communication. The different types of business letters used based on their context are as follows,\nOfficial letters can be handwritten or printed. Modernisation has led to the usage of new means of business correspondence such as E-mail and Fax.\n\nEmail is the latest formal method of business communication. It is the most widely used method of written communication usually done in a conversational style. It is used when there is a need to communicate to large audience in an organization.\n\nMemorandum is a document used for internal communication within an organization. Memos may be drafted by management and addressed to other employees, and it is sent with the money draft. Memos are sent to several people in a team when important business matters need to be updated to them or to a single person to have a written record of the informations.\n"}
{"id": "4722073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4722073", "title": "CCU delivery", "text": "CCU delivery\n\nCustomer Configuration Updating (CCU) is a software development method for structuring the process of providing customers with new versions of products and updates production. This method is developed by researchers of the Utrecht University.\n\nThis article is about the delivery phase of the CCU method. Delivery concerns the process which starts at the moment a product is finished until the actual shipping of the product to the customer.\n\nAs described in the general entry of CCU, the delivery phase is the second phase of the CCU method. In figure one the CCU method is depicted. The phases of CCU that are not covered in this article are concealed by a transparent grey rectangle.\n\nAs can be seen in figure one, the delivery phase is in between the release phase and the deployment phase. A software vendor develops and releases a software product and afterwards it has to be transported to the customer. This phase is the delivery process. This process is highly complex because the vendor often has to deal with a product which has multiple versions, variable features, dependency on external products, and different kinds of distribution options. The CCU method helps the software vendor in structuring this process.\n\nIn figure 2, the process-data diagram of the delivery phase within CCU is depicted. This way of modeling was invented by Saeki (2003). On the left side you can see the meta-process model and on the right side the meta-data model. The two models are linked to each other by the relationships visualized as dotted lines. The meta-data model (right side) shows the concepts involved in the process and how the concepts are related to each other. For instance it is visible that a package consists of multiple parts, being the: software package, system description, manual, and license and management information. The numbers between the relations indicate in what quantity the concepts are related. For example the “1..1” between package and software package means that a package has to contain at least 1 software package and at the most 1 software package. So in this case a package just has to contain 1 software package. On the left side of the picture the process-data model is depicted. This consists of all the activities within the delivery process. This article is based on this process-data model. The meta-process model (left side of the process-data diagram) is divided into several parts which are presented along with the corresponding paragraphs throughout the article to make it easier to understand.\n\nThe tables that describe the concepts of the meta-data model and the activities of the process-data model are presented beneath figure 2.\n\nThe table of concepts contains all concepts used in the meta-data model with their explanations along with the source from which the explanations are derived.\n\nThe activity table contains the explanations of the activities along with the source from which the explanations are derived. Because the method is quite innovative a lot of the activity’s are designed especially for this model and therefore the explanations do not have a source.\n\nIn order to deliver the developed product to the customer, the vendor needs to package the different components of its product into a package. By doing this, the customer will receive all the information and software components at once fulfilling all its needs. After combining all elements into one package the software vendor will carefully have to check if the package is complete. The package will have to provide the customer with all the tools and information to use the product. When this is not the case the software vendor will get a lot of questions from its customers which will consume a lot of time. It is therefore very important that the package is checked carefully before it is shipped. The package can be a physical combination of different elements packed into for example a box, but it can also be a digital combination of files which contain all the elements. Within the CCU process it is stated that a package will consist of five elements, being: software package, system description, manual, and license and management information. In the following paragraphs is explained how these elements fit into the CCU delivery phase.\n\nOne of the elements of the package will be the software package. The software package is a package in itself, because it consists of the different software components that together form the product. In contrast with the overall package, the software package is always a technical package in which all the files needed are combined in order to run the software product. Another concept of the software package is the version. This keeps track of the modifications made to the software product. By relating it to the software package the vendor and the customer are able to keep track of the functionality and properties of the product the customer is using.\n\nIt is a general description of what the product and its functionalities. In addition it will also describe of what components, the product consists and how these are related to other product software already in place. In case of a software update it will for example describe how the previous version of the software is modified by this product. Besides this, it will also describe the requirements needed to run the software product properly. For example what other products and configurations need to be in place in order to let this product run properly.\n\nThe manual is the document that will provide the customer with guidance in deploying and using the product.\n\nThe license is in this case a Software license agreement in which is stated how the customer is permitted to use the product. For example it can state how many users are permitted to use the software product. In this situation the license agreement is a contract or a certificate which is the customers prove of its using permits. The software vendor has its own part of the agreement which in most cases is stored in a system. An elaboration of this part can be found at the receive feedback section of this article. The license agreement shipped to the customer can be a digital document as well as a physical document.\n\nThis piece of information should contain the information that is relevant for managing the system at the customer site. In many cases this information is already part of the manual. However in particular situations this information is meant only for the management of the system and not for the users of the system and is therefore supplied as a separate document.\n\nAfter the package is assembled it needs to be distributed to the customers. This section within the delivery process is about the actual delivery of the package to the customers.\n\nThe software distribution of a product can be done offline as well as online. In an offline situation the package is a physical package which contains all the elements. The software is stored on a data carrier such as a CD or a DVD, and the documents might also be stored in a digital form on this data carrier, or they might be in physical form such as a booklet. The package as a whole is a physical product. In an online situation the entire package needs to be in a digital form. The consequences on the distribution process are described in the following paragraphs. CCU is designed to fit both situations but as bandwidth is growing it is making more sense to distribute especially updates and new versions to existing customers online. In this article both ways are discussed. In the process-data model it is assumed that the software vendor conducts both distribution channels. As a practical example: HISComp, a provider of medical information systems distributes its software straightforward via CDs. However they use their website to distribute patches for the software products.\n\nAfter a new package is assembled, the customer needs to be made aware of the new release. In the process-data model this is being depicted as a loop which states advertising the update until the customers are being properly informed. Besides this, the package ready for delivery, needs to be stored in a repository for the online distribution. In addition the vendor needs to create transfer channels. For the online distribution this means that the vendor needs to create online channels to its repository. In most cases this means that a link to the product on the website of the vendor is created. In case of updates it is largely applicable that the current version of the software product at the customer site automatically checks the repository for new updates of the product. In case of offline distribution, the vendor needs to create physical transfer channels. This can be shops or just a contract with a courier company.\n\nThe distribution begins with the request for a product by the customer. This can be done automatically when the current product of the customer searches for an update at the online repository. The customer can also manually do a request for a product via the website of the vendor. A third option is that the customer does the request via telephone or e-mail.\n\nWhen the vendor is aware of the customer request it will determine the customer needs. By checking what the customer current configuration is and what the customer desires. This process can also take place automatically by checking the customer configuration in the configuration management system. More information on this system is provided in the next chapter. When it is clear what product the customer needs and the possible modifications to this product it is necessary to determine if the customer current configuration suits the new product. The current configuration is compared to the constraints of the new product. This can also be done automatically by the configuration management system. When the configuration of the customer appears to be insufficient the customer is informed about this. For example the vendor can make clear to the customer that it will need an external product for this new product to run properly. Besides this the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system of the vendor is updated. There is more information about this in the chapter about CRM.\n\nWhen the customer configuration is sufficient the vendor will check the current license of the customer. If the customer does not have a proper license for the requested product the license needs to be obtained. The customer will be informed about this and the CRM system will be updated again. If the customer has the proper license or wants to buy the proper license along with the product, the product is delivered to the customer.\n\nThe Software Configuration Management system, is a system at the vendor’s site which keeps track of the configurations at the customer site. By storing this in a system the vendor will be able to give the customer particular service when it needs a new product. In the software configuration management system information about the products used by the customer, the version of these products, as well as which updates are already being done, is stored. In some cases it is possible that the vendor did some modifications to the product particularly for this customer. This will also have to be stored in the system. Also there needs to be configuration data, some generic information about the configuration the customer is using. For example what operating platform the customer uses for its software. What also should be stored in this system is information about the feedback that the vendor gets from the customer. This includes bug reports, product usage data, error reports and usage questions. More information about this feedback can be found in the CCU phase activation and usage.\n\nBy storing all this information the vendor can determine the customer needs very precisely whenever a customer requests a product or an update. As already stated the vendor can also easily inform the customer about some adaptations the customer needs to make to its configuration in order to let the product function properly. Another advantage of storing this information in a system is that it will ease the process of online delivery. The checking of the configuration needs and constraints can all be done automatically when a customer does a request.\n\nThe customer relationship management system contains all kinds of data about the customers of a company. In this article we will discuss the function of this customer data in the CCU delivery process. Information about the license agreement between the customer and the software vendor is stored in the CRM system. In the meta-data model this repository and online distribution is linked to the CRM system this can again be done automatically. The system will check if the license of a customer is sufficient to obtain a certain product or update.\n\nIn order to keep all the described systems up-to-date at the vendor site it is important that the vendor receives a lot of\n\nAn example of a successful application of the CCU method can be found at Exact Software (ES). ES is a manufacturer of accounting and enterprise resource planning software based in the Netherlands. ES has combined Product Data Management (PDM), Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Software Configuration Management (SCM) in order to maintain the configuration at the customer site in a better and less complex way. ES has a module in its CRM software that contains all contracts of each customer. This is linked to their PDM system. Every contract corresponds to files that can be downloaded for a new version or update of a previous version. In the delivery phase this means that the customers are able to obtain all the products through an online connection. So ES sells contracts (licenses) and stores them into their CRM system, the delivery of the actual products can be done by the customers themselves completely automated requiring little effort. The PDM system is on its turn linked to the SCM system which keeps track of the configurations the customers are using. In the delivery phase this means that ES is able to automatically determine the customer needs whenever a customer does a request.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5546802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5546802", "title": "Certificate of incorporation", "text": "Certificate of incorporation\n\nA certificate of incorporation is a legal document relating to the formation of a company or corporation. It is a license to form a corporation issued by state government or, in some jurisdictions, by non-governmental entity. Its precise meaning depends upon the legal system in which it is used.\n\nIn the U.S. a certificate of incorporation is usually used as an alternative description of a corporation's articles of incorporation. The certificate of incorporation, or articles of incorporation, form a major constituent part of the constitutional documents of the corporation. In English and Commonwealth legal systems, a certificate of incorporation is usually a simple certificate issued by the relevant government registry as confirmation of the due incorporation and valid existence of the company.\n\nIn other common law legal systems, the certificate of incorporation has less legal significance. Although it has been held by the House of Lords in \"Cotman v Brougham\" (1918) AC 514, that because the issue the certificate of incorporation is conclusive evidence of the formation of a company, the issuance of the certificate overrides any irregularities which may have occurred during the formation of the company.\n"}
{"id": "18388363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18388363", "title": "Chad Troutwine", "text": "Chad Troutwine\n\nChad Troutwine (born May 23, 1968) is an American Independent film producer and Co-Founder and CEO of Veritas Prep.\n\nAs a child, Troutwine's parents encouraged his entrepreneurial spirit and placed a high value on education. Troutwine earned a perfect score on the Stanford Achievement Test, and graduated high school at the age of sixteen. Troutwine earned his BA from Arizona State University at nineteen, and went on to earn a JD from the University of Missouri, graduating with honors, an MBA from the Yale School of Management, and received a master's degree in Public Administration from the Harvard Kennedy School.\n\nWhile at Yale, Troutwine and Markus Moberg, launched Veritas Prep, a GMAT preparation and MBA admissions consulting company. Veritas Prep has become the world's largest privately owned test preparation and admissions consulting company, and now prepares students for the SAT, ACT, and GRE.\n\nIn recognition of his entrepreneurial endeavors, Forbes magazine named Troutwine their 2002 Forbes Future Capitalist of the Year. Seven years later, Entrepreneur magazine featured Troutwine and Moberg as Top 20 Trailblazers and Trendsetters for 2009.\n\nAfter Troutwine co-founded Freakonomics Media, the Freakonomics franchise grew from its original book to a movie, radio show, more books, and a multimedia website.\n\nIn 2014, Troutwine co-founded Torn Label Brewing Company in Kansas City, MO.\n\nA year later, in 2015, Troutwine co-founded the Los Angeles computer coding academy, Codesmith. In 2016, Codesmith announced it had received over $1 million in funding. As of July 2016, Codesmith alumni had a 96% hiring rate at an average salary of $103,000.\n\nTroutwine is an investor and member of the Board of Directors of the crowdfunding and film distribution platform, Seed&Spark. Troutwine is also an advisor to SoloPro, a real estate startup venture founded by former US Army Special Forces officer and Duke University professor Tommy Sowers.\n\nIn 2013, the Aspen Institute named Troutwine a member of the Henry Crown Fellowship.\n\nIn January 2001, Troutwine established Chad Troutwine Films. His films have premiered at the Sundance Film Festival and the Cannes Film Festival and featured award-winning actors (including James Woods, Nick Nolte, Vince Vaughn, Miranda Richardson, Steve Buscemi, Bob Hoskins, and Natalie Portman), and directors (Joel and Ethan Coen, Alex Gibney, Morgan Spurlock, Gus Van Sant, Alfonso Cuaron, Seth Gordon, and Alexander Payne).\n\nIn 2008, Troutwine joined Dan O'Meara and Chris Romano at the Green Film Company, a New York-based production company.\n\nIn 2010, Magnolia Pictures released his documentary adaptation of the New York Times Bestseller Freakonomics. It was the Closing Night gala film at the 2010 Tribeca Film Festival.\n\nIn 2014, Troutwine's documentary, \"Print the Legend\", won a special jury award at the 2014 SXSW Film Festival. The film was distributed by Netflix.\n\nIn 2016, Business Insider published the Top 15 Netflix documentaries to \"make you smarter about business\", a list which included two of Troutwine's films: \"Print the Legend\" and \"Freakonomics\".\n\n- \"\" (2017) (executive producer)\n- \"Rolling Papers\" (2015) (executive producer)\n- \"Finders Keepers\" (2015) (executive producer)\n- \"Print the Legend\" (2014) (producer)\n- \"Jayhawkers\" (2014) (executive producer)\n- \"\" (2013) (executive producer)\n- \"Freakonomics\" (2010) (producer)\n- \"Gerrymandering\" (2010) (producer)\n- \"Carissa\" (2008) (producer)\n- \"Paris, je t'aime\" (2006) (executive producer)\n- \"Lo Más bonito y mis mejores años\" (2005) (associate producer)\n- \"Edmond\" (2005) (co-producer)\n- \"The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things\" (2004) (executive producer)\n- \"I Love Your Work\" (2003) (executive producer)\n- \"Northfork\" (2003) (associate producer)\n\nTroutwine also appeared as himself in the 2007 independent film \"A Lawyer Walks into a Bar\".\n\nOn June 28, 2015, Troutwine married Sacha Radford at the Adamson House in Malibu, CA.\n\n- Master Minds, an article on Troutwine and Moberg in the March 2009 issue of Entrepreneur magazine.\n"}
{"id": "41655576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41655576", "title": "Chairman's Choice", "text": "Chairman's Choice\n\nChairman's Choice is a practice where a company head mandates that his/her company sponsors an event/celebrity etc. for personal gain, or for illogical or non-existent commercial reasons. The practice is less prevalent in developed countries but occurs more often in emerging markets.\n\nSponsorship is not to be confused with charity donations which are not designed to create a commercial return for a company\n"}
{"id": "343044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343044", "title": "Chief operating officer", "text": "Chief operating officer\n\nThe chief operating officer (COO), also called the chief operations officer, is one of the highest-ranking executive positions in an organization, comprising part of the \"C-Suite\". The COO is responsible for the daily operation of the company, and routinely reports to the highest-ranking executive, usually the chief executive officer (CEO).\n\nThe COO is usually the second in command at the firm, especially if the highest-ranking executive is the Chairman and CEO.\n\nUnlike other C-Suite positions, which tend to be defined according to commonly designated responsibilities across most companies, the COO job tends to be defined in relation to the specific CEO with whom they work, given the close working relationship of these two individuals. In many ways, the selection of a COO is similar to the selection of a Vice President or Chief of Staff of the United States: power and responsibility structures vary in government and private regimes depending on the style and needs of the President or CEO. Thus, the COO role meets individual expectations and changes as leadership teams adjust.\n\nIn a similar vein to the COO, the title of corporate President as a separate position (as opposed to being combined with a \"C-Suite\" designation, such as \"President and CEO\" or \"President and COO\") is also loosely defined. The President is usually the legally recognized highest rank of corporate officer, ranking above the various Vice Presidents (including Senior Vice President and Executive Vice President), but on its own generally considered subordinate, in practice, to the CEO. \n\nLloyd E. Reuss was President of General Motors from 1990 to 1992, as the right-hand man of Chairman and CEO Robert C. Stempel. Stempel insisted on naming Reuss as company president in charge of North American operations, the board reluctantly agreed but showed their displeasure by not giving Reuss the title of COO.\n\nRichard D. Parsons was number two in the company hierarchy during his tenure as President of Time Warner from 1995 to 2001, but he had no authority over the operating divisions, and instead took on assignments at the behest of Chairman and CEO Gerald Levin.\n\nMichael Capellas was appointed President of Hewlett-Packard in order to ease its acquisition and integration of Compaq, where Capellas was previously Chairman and CEO. Capellas ended up serving just six months as HP president before departing. His former role of president was not filled as the executives who reported to him then reported directly to the CEO.\n\nIn 2007, the investment banking firms of Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley each had two presidents (Warren Spector and Alan Schwartz at Bear, Robert Scully and Zoe Cruz at Morgan) reporting to one CEO (who was also chairman of the board); each president was essentially a co-COO (despite the lack of title) overseeing half of the firm's business divisions. Schwartz became sole president of Bear after Spector was ousted, and several months later assumed the position of CEO as well when James Cayne was forced to resign (Cayne remained chairman).\n\nTom Anselmi of Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment was Chief Operating Officer from 2004 until September 6, 2013. Between the departure of Richard Peddie and the hiring of Tim Leiweke for the posts of President and CEO, Anselmi added the title of President from September 4, 2012 to June 30, 2013, however he remained COO and did not receive the title of CEO.\n\nRichard Fuld, the chairman and CEO of Lehman Brothers, had a succession of \"number twos\" under him, usually titled as President and Chief Operating Officer. Chris Pettit was Fuld's second-in-command for two decades until November 26, 1996, when he resigned as President and board member. Pettit lost a power struggle with his deputies (Steve Lessing, Tom Tucker, and Joseph M. Gregory) on March 15 that year that caused him to relinquish its COO title, likely brought about after the three men found about Pettit's extramarital affairs, which violated Fuld's unwritten rules on marriage and social etiquette. Bradley Jack and Joseph M. Gregory were appointed co-COOs in 2002, but Jack was demoted to the Office of the Chairman in May 2004 and departed in June 2005 with a severance package of $80 million, making Gregory the sole COO. While Fuld was considered the \"face\" of Lehman brothers, Gregory was in charge of day-to-day operations and he influenced culture to drive the bottom line. Gregory was demoted on June 12, 2008 and replaced as President and COO by Bart McDade, who had been serving as head of Equities, and McDade would see Lehman through bankruptcy.\n\nThomas W. LaSorda served as President and CEO of Chrysler from January 1, 2006 to August 5, 2007 while Chrysler was owned by Daimler-Benz. When Cerberus Capital bought majority control of Chrysler, Bob Nardelli was appointed Chairman and CEO of Chrysler while LaSorda became Vice Chairman and President. Despite the appointment of a second Vice Chairman and President, Jim Press, LaSorda stayed on. LaSorda's titles as Vice Chairman and President officially stated that he was in charge of manufacturing, procurement and supply, employee relations, global business development and alliances. However, LaSorda's actual role was to find a new partner or buyer for Chrysler, leading to speculation that Cerberus Capital was less interested in rebuilding the auto manufacturer than it was to turning profit though a leveraged buyout.\n\nResearch in Motion's corporate structure had more than one COO, including Jim Rowan as chief operating officer for global operations, and Thorsten Heins as COO of products and sales.\n\nThe Walt Disney Company has used the President and COO titles in varied ways for their number two executive. Ron W. Miller was President from 1978 to 1984, while serving additionally as CEO for 18 months from 1983 to 84. Frank Wells was President from 1984 to 1994, where he reported to the board of directors and not Chairman and CEO Michael Eisner. When Wells died in a helicopter crash, no replacement President was named as his duties were resumed by Eisner. Michael Ovitz was President from 1995 to 1997, being hired by Eisner and then dismissed not long afterwards. Bob Iger was President and COO from 2000 to 2005, when he succeeded Eisner as CEO. Thomas O. Staggs was COO from 2015 to 2016, during that time the senior executive team had a dual reporting structure to both Staggs and Iger; Staggs resigned after the board did not give him assurances that he would succeed as CEO.\n\nManulife has used the President and COO titles for separate roles. From June 5 until September 30, 2017, Rocco \"Roy\" Gori served as President where he oversaw Manulife's global operating businesses, with his subordinates being the general managers of the Canadian, U.S., and Asia Divisions, and the Chief Investment Officer. Gori reported to Chief Executive Officer Donald Guloien before additionally assuming the title of CEO on October 1, 2017 upon Guloien's retirement. Linda Mantia, the Chief Operating Officer, reported to the President on Corporate Strategy while continuing to report to the CEO on all other matters including Corporate Development, Analytics, Technology, Marketing, Innovation, Human Resources, Regulatory and Public Affairs, Global Resourcing and Procurement, and the Global Program Office.\n\nSome modern companies operate without a COO. For example, in 2007 almost 58% of Fortune 500 companies did not have a COO. In these instances the CEO either takes on more roles and responsibilities, or the roles traditionally assigned to the COO are carried out by sub C-Suite executives. Although the number of COOs has been in decline for the past 10 years, there are reasons to anticipate an increased utilization of the position in the future, including:\n\nThe role of the COO differs from industry to industry and from organization to organization. Some organizations function without a COO. Others may have two COOs, each assigned to oversee several business lines or divisions, such as Lehman Brothers from 2002 to 2004 when Bradley Jack and Joseph M. Gregory were the co-COOs. A COO could also be brought in from other organizations as a \"fixer,\" such as Daniel J. O'Neill who in 1999 joined Molson in that capacity.\n\nIn the manufacturing sector, the primary role of the COO is routinely one of operations management, meaning that the COO is responsible for the development, design, operation, and improvement of the systems that create and deliver the firm's products. The COO is responsible for ensuring that business operations are efficient and effective and that the proper management of resources, distribution of goods and services to customers and analysis of queue systems is conducted.\n\nDespite the functional diversity associated with the role of COO, there are some common functions the COOs usually perform:\n\nRoutinely in large organizations the COO will be the heir apparent to the CEO. Individuals may have worked their way (internally) up the company ladder before being named COO, or may have been recruited from an outside company. Either way, the position is used as a training and testing ground for the next CEO.\n\nA 2003 Crist Associates study revealed that only 17% of companies that promote a COO to a CEO replace the COO within the next year.\n\nAn Accenture study found that approximately one in nine COOs moved into the CEO's shoes within a year of their departure and that half of COOs see themselves as the \"heir apparent.\" COOs transitioning into the CEO role often face similar challenges including:\n\nAccording to researchers Miles and Bennett, just knowing these common pitfalls can help a COO \"heir\" better prepare for the transition, thereby avoiding them in totality or ensuring that at least they do not evolve into full derailers once they are in the CEO seat.\n\nBecause the COO is often responsible for serving as an information conduit to the CEO, it is essential that the relationship between COO and CEO be a positive one. Trust is the most important ingredient necessary for a CEO-COO relationship to thrive. The CEO must have full confidence that the COO is not making direct passes for their job, can get the work done, and shares their vision (rather than using their trusted spot and access to information to undermine the CEO's strategy or implement his/her own vision). When a relationship built upon trust is created between the CEO and COO, firm performance is improved and shareholder results are strengthened. Seven strategies that are key to building trust in the CEO-COO relationship include:\n\n\nIn addition to having a strong and trusting relationship with the CEO, the COO should also have an effective relationship with the board. A good relationship between COO and the board allows the board to better understand and independently judge a potential successor. A strong relationship between the board and the COO also offers the board an additional expert opinion on the health of the company, and status of key initiatives. It benefits the CEO to allow such a relationship to form because it reflects confidence and fosters transparency. It also reinforces that the CEO is capable of developing talent, and helps the CEO to retain the COO by further empowering the individual. A strong relationship benefits the COOs in that they are able to expand their experience as well as their professional network. Additionally, if they are looking to be the next CEO, it allows them to develop credibility with the board. Researchers advise the COO to go beyond simply presenting at board meetings, to ensure they are developing strong one-on-one relationships with each board director. Researchers also urge the COO to develop his or her own voice, independent of the CEO.\n\nAny breakdown in trust between the CEO and COO can lead to failure. Additionally, the COO typically has to be a high-level leader who is comfortable being fully in charge. Many executives with the leadership skills necessary to be a top-level COO would prefer to be running their own organization as opposed to taking orders from a CEO. For COOs who are expecting to serve their time and be promoted to the top spot, their timelines for such a move can often be out of sync with the CEOs, causing a breakdown in the relationship. COOs can also find themselves trapped into being labeled an \"operations\" person or a \"Number 2\" as opposed to being seen as a strategic and top-level leader by the Board of Directors, which causes some executives to steer clear of the position. Harry Levinson, Ph.D., effectively summarized the challenges of the COO position: \"The relationship between the chief executive officer and the chief operating officer in any organization is fraught with many psychological complexities. Perhaps it is the most difficult of all organizational working relationships because more than others, it is a balancing act on the threshold of power.\"\n\nNathan Bennett and Stephen A. Miles have published extensively on the subject of the COO. In addition to writing a book dedicated to analyzing this hard-to-understand position, their research has been published in the \"Harvard Business Review\", \"MIT Management Review\" and Chief Executive.net. Their work focuses on identifying different types of COOs, when the role works to deliver additional value, and when the role fails to produce the desired results. Their research includes interviews with more than a hundred CEOs and COOs on the topic.\n"}
{"id": "8385046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8385046", "title": "Core banking", "text": "Core banking\n\nCore (Centralized Online Real-time Exchange) banking is a banking service provided by a group of networked bank branches where customers may access their bank account and perform basic transactions from any of the member branch offices.\n\nCore banking is often associated with retail banking and many banks treat the retail customers as their core banking customers. Businesses are usually managed via the corporate banking division of the institution. Core banking covers basic depositing and lending of money.\n\nCore banking functions will include transaction accounts, loans, mortgages and payments. Banks make these services available across multiple channels like automated teller machines, Internet banking, mobile banking and branches.\n\nBanking software and network technology allow a bank to centralise its record keeping and allow access from any location.\n\nCore banking became possible with the advent of computer and telecommunication technology that allowed information to be shared between bank branches quickly and efficiently.\n\nBefore the 1970s it used to take at least a day for a transaction to reflect in the real account because each branch had their local servers, and the data from the server in each branch was sent in a batch to the servers in the data center only at the end of the day (EOD).\n\nOver the following 30 years most banks moved to core banking applications to support their operations creating a Centralized Online Real-time Exchange (or Environment) (CORE). This meant that all the bank's branches could access applications from centralized data centers. Deposits made were reflected immediately on the bank's servers, and the customer could withdraw the deposited money from any of the bank's branches.\n\nAdvancements in Internet and information technology reduced manual work in banks and increasing efficiency. Computer software is developed to perform core operations of banking like recording of transactions, passbook maintenance, interest calculations on loans and deposits, customer records, balance of payments and withdrawal. This software is installed at different branches of bank and then interconnected by means of computer networks based on telephones, satellite and the Internet.\n\nGartner defines a core banking system as a back-end system that processes daily banking transactions, and posts updates to accounts and other financial records. Core banking systems typically include deposit, loan and credit-processing capabilities, with interfaces to general ledger systems and reporting tools. Core banking applications are often one of the largest single expense for banks and legacy software are a major issue in terms of allocating resources. Spending on these systems is based on a combination of service-oriented architecture and supporting technologies.\n\nMany banks implement custom applications for core banking. Others implement or customize commercial independent software vendor packages. Systems integrators like Cognizant, EdgeVerve Systems Limited, Capgemini, Accenture, IBM and Tata Consultancy Services implement these core banking packages at banks.\n\nChoosing right core banking solution is again a tough task for banks its not always that easy to select right core banking solution.\n\nOpen source Technology in core banking solution or software can help banks to maintain their productivity and profitability at the same time.\n\nWhile larger financial institutions may implement their own custom core, community banks and credit unions tend to outsource their core systems to system providers. While there is no consensus or a public register on the actual Core Banking Providers, various market research companies like Gartner or Forrester Research release annual deal surveys mentioning platform deals \n"}
{"id": "234835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234835", "title": "Corporate development", "text": "Corporate development\n\nCorporate development refers to the planning and execution of strategies to meet organizational objectives. The kinds of activities falling under corporate development may include management team recruitment, phasing in or out of markets or products, arranging strategic alliances, identifying and acquiring companies (M&A), securing corporate financing, divesting of assets or divisions, and management of intellectual property. The activities encompassed are often the role of the CEO. \n\nCorporate strategy depends on the circumstances of a company and the area where development is desired. Corporate development is usually a process that takes place over an extended period of time and may be adjusted or refined as the project moves forward\n\nOne of the manifestations of corporate development has to do with reshaping the management arm of the corporation. This may involve a process of phasing certain management positions out of the existing structure or creating new positions in an effort to strengthen the management team. As part of this type of approach, corporate development may also demand that one or more current managers are released from the company and replaced with people who possess skills required to move the company forward. When this is the case, the corporate development team will handle the functions of recruitment and evaluation of potential hires.\n\nThe process of corporate development can also be applied to the task of growing the company through mergers and acquisitions. In this scenario, the project development will involve identifying potential target companies for acquisitions or unions resulting in a new and more aggressive corporation. The team will consider all possible outcomes from any given potential merger or acquisition and attempt to project if the action is likely to result in positive growth or could possibly impair the company permanently.\n\nJust as a management team may be revamped, corporate development may also be employed to change the current focus for clients. This may mean looking into the potential for breaking into new markets with existing products or developing complementary products that will allow this type of expansion. Corporate development strategy would monitor the trends associated with a corporation's products or services and helps the corporation establish strategies to find more customers. In addition, corporate development works to maximize the profits of a corporation by figuring out the appropriate pricing for a given good or service. A corporate development team also leads discussions with sales department heads regarding how to market corporate goods, organize marketing campaigns, analyze market research and incorporate any customer advice or complaints into marketing strategies in such cases; extensive industry specific business experience is often preferred which is why companies may hire an external firm to help them engage in such moves.\n\nDepending on the status of the base market, corporate development may also look at shifting away from a shrinking consumer market while seeking market share in a different consumer market with newer products. For example, many typewriter manufacturers during the 1980s and 1990s slowly phased out their core business and began to focus more on computer parts and accessories as a way to continue operations.\n\nParticularly in larger companies, corporate development is provided as a charter for a particular executive or team. In these cases, the opportunities and initiatives are numerous enough to justify specialists, instead of being delegated to the office of the CEO and line of business executives. When focused on product or financial issues, corporate development executives often have MBA, CFA or CPA credentials. Often the internal corporate development executives come from a legal or investment banking background, due to the complex contractual and valuation issues associated with many transactions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6074982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6074982", "title": "Corporate sourcing", "text": "Corporate sourcing\n\nCorporate sourcing refers to a system where divisions of companies coordinate the procurement and distribution of materials, parts, equipment, and supplies for the organization. This is a supply chain, purchasing/procurement, and inventory function. This enables bulk discounting, auditing, and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.\n\nDuties of a corporate sourcing agent include:\n\nSome of corporate sourcing agents:\nRichman Chemical, Onetouch, Worldwide Brands, SAOS\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44355968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44355968", "title": "Critical process parameters", "text": "Critical process parameters\n\nCritical process parameters (CPP) in pharmaceutical manufacturing are key variables affecting the production process. CPPs are attributes that are monitored to detect deviations in standardized production operations and product output quality or changes in Critical Quality Attributes. Those attributes with a higher impact on CQAs should be prioritized and held in a stricter state of control. The manufacturer should conduct test to set acceptable range limits of the determined CPPs and define acceptable process variable variability. Operational conditions within this range are considered acceptable operational standards. Any deviation from the acceptable range will be indicative of issues within the process and the subsequent production of substandard products. Data relating to CPP should be recorded, stored, and analyzed by the manufacturer. CPP variables and ranges should be reevaluated after careful analysis of historical CPP data. Identifying CPPs is done in stage one of Process Validation: Process design are an essential part of a manufacturing control strategy.\n\nOne method of defining CPPs is to look at the effect of certain production processes on critical quality attributes. Those production parameters which have a measurable effect on those quality attributes that have been identified as critical can be considered CPPs and must always be in a state of control.\n"}
{"id": "4844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844867", "title": "Custom house", "text": "Custom house\n\nA custom house or customs house was a building housing the offices for the government officials who processed the paperwork associated with importing and exporting goods into and out of a country. Customs officials also collected customs duty on imported goods.\n\nThe custom house was typically located in a seaport or in a city on a major river, with access to the ocean. These cities acted as a port of entry into a country. The government stationed officials at such locations to collect taxes and regulate commerce.\n\nDue to advances in electronic information systems, the increased volume of international trade, and the introduction of air travel, the term \"custom house\" is now often an historical anachronism. There are many examples of buildings around the world that were formerly used as custom houses but have since been converted for other uses, such as museums or civic buildings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since 1386, the phrase \"custom house\" has been in use over the term \"customs house\". This was after a \"Custom House\" was erected at Wool Wharf in Tower Ward, to contain just the officials of the Great Custom on Wool and Woolfells. The singular form was used even though in later years the Custom House was the location of other Customs officials as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5073551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5073551", "title": "Customer service representative", "text": "Customer service representative\n\nCustomer service representatives (CSRs), customer service advisors, or customer service associates (CSAs) interact with customers to handle complaints, process orders, and provide information about an organization’s products and services. Qualifications include good communication, problem-solving, and computer skills.\n\nCustomer service representative positions often require at least a high school diploma. Representatives often have some experience with office software.\n\nFirst impressions are very important in this job. The moment one begins to communicate with a customer, one is being judged. The way one communicates with a customer will not only influence how the conversation develops, but the overall impression of the CSR and the organization they represent. There are five key customer service skills that define the best CSRs: \n\nAlthough earnings may vary, the median hourly average for CSRs in 2017 was $15.81, in the US. People in this job typically have less than 20 years' experience. Skills that are associated with high pay for this job are those in customer service metrics, Microsoft Office, customer relationship management, and oral and verbal communication.\n\n"}
{"id": "372526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372526", "title": "Earnings", "text": "Earnings\n\nEarnings are the net benefits of a corporation's operation. Earnings is also the amount on which corporate tax is due. For an analysis of specific aspects of corporate operations several more specific terms are used as EBIT -- earnings before interest and taxes, EBITDA - earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization.\n\nMany alternative terms for earnings are in common use, such as income and profit. These terms in turn have a variety of definitions, depending on their context and the objectives of the authors. For instance, the IRS uses the term profit to describe earnings, whereas for the corporation the profit it reports is the amount left after taxes are taken out. Many economic discussions use principles derived from Karl Marx and Adam Smith. However the rise of the importance of intellectual capital affects such analyses.\n\nRoutine earnings or commodity-based earnings are those that can be achieved by application of assets that are those that can be achieved by any business that employs sufficient capital and manpower. These conditions are commonly assumed in economic analyses of profit (economics)\n\nThe use of intellectual property generates non-routine profits. Those are often an order-of-magnitude greater than routine earnings. Non-routine profits are essential to warrant the high investments needed for high-technology industries.\n\nSome statistical models (e.g. based on Benford's law or Beneish M-Score) are used in order to detect possible earnings manipulations (fraud).\n"}
{"id": "27035690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27035690", "title": "Elluminate Live", "text": "Elluminate Live\n\nElluminate Live! was a web conferencing program developed by Elluminate Inc. Elluminate \"rented out\" virtual rooms or vSpaces where virtual schools and businesses can hold classes and meetings. Elluminate was acquired by Blackboard Inc. and renamed to Blackboard Collaborate. Blackboard subsequently deprecated Blackboard Collaborate in favor of Blackboard Collaborate Ultra which is WebRTC-based.\n\nWhile Elluminate is primarily designed and used for educational purposes, it is also used by training organizations and corporations. K12 Inc., Desire2learn and several other schools and businesses use Elluminate live as part of their curriculum and meetings.\n\nElluminate Live! communication tools include integrated Voice over IP and teleconferencing, public and private chat, quizzing and polling, emoticons, and a webcam tool. The software includes several visual tools, including whiteboard, application sharing, file transfer, and web tour. The software also includes a record feature that allows the moderator to record the class for others to watch later as well as a graphing tool, breakout rooms for group work, and timer. The whiteboard supports the uploading of presentations for viewing on the whiteboard for class or meeting.\n\nTo use Elluminate, the user needs Java Web Start or Java SE by Sun Microsystems. Elluminate Live is designed to be used on all computers, providing they have Java installed. Elluminate is also designed to work on Internet connections that include cable/DSL and 28.8kbit/s or higher dialup connections.\n"}
{"id": "12799096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12799096", "title": "Enterprise information access", "text": "Enterprise information access\n\nEnterprise information access refers to information systems that allow for enterprise search; content classification; content clustering; information extraction; enterprise bookmarking; taxonomy creation and management; information presentation (for example, visualization) to support analysis and understanding; and desktop or personal knowledge search.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7364282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7364282", "title": "F-Law", "text": "F-Law\n\nManagement \"f\"-Laws are subversive epigrams about common management practices. Based on observation and experience, they are used to draw attention to entrenched ways of thinking about management and business that are often at odds with common sense or our actual experience. \n\nSystems theorist Russell L. Ackoff, his co-author Herbert J. Addison and Sally Bibb invented the term in 2006 to describe their series of over 100 distilled observations of bad leadership and the misplaced wisdom that often surrounds management in organizations. Ackoff and Addison's \"f\"-Laws might seem counter-intuitive. They are designed to challenge organizations' unquestioning adherence to established management habits or beliefs. Many of the \"f\"-Laws describe a relationship of inverse proportionality, in example: \"The lower the rank of managers, the more they know about fewer things.\"\n\nThe \"f\"-Laws advocate adopting a positive, forward-looking and interactive approach to structural or systematic change within organizations, following the principles of idealized design. This is a process that \"involves redesigning the organization on the assumption that it was destroyed last night... The most effective way of creating the future is by closing or reducing the gap between the current state and the idealized design\".\n\nThree collections of \"f\"-Laws entitled A Little Book of f-Laws: 13 Common Sins of Management, Management f-Laws: How Organizations Really Work and Systems Thinking for Curious Managers have been published. While, if read in isolation, each \"f\"-Law is a witty and thought-provoking axiom, the books provide a context that draws upon systems thinking and the debate over the importance of developing soft skills in business environments.\n\n"}
{"id": "40191928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40191928", "title": "Greater Reading Expo Center", "text": "Greater Reading Expo Center\n\nThe Greater Reading Expo Center was an exhibition center located just north of Reading, Pennsylvania and access from the Warren Street Bypass (Route 12.) It had 30 meeting rooms, two food courts, and a total area of over 270,000 square feet on one floor. The expo center opened in 2006 and closed in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "3172176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3172176", "title": "International business", "text": "International business\n\nInternational business refers to the trade of goods, services, technology, capital and/or knowledge across national borders and at a global level. \n\nIt involves cross-border transactions of goods and services between two or more countries. Transactions of economic resources include capital, skills, and people for the purpose of the international production of physical goods and services such as finance, banking, insurance, and construction. International business is also known as globalization.\n\nTo conduct business overseas, multinational companies need to bridge separate national markets into one global marketplace. There are two macro-scale factors that underline the trend of greater globalization. The first consists of eliminating barriers to make cross-border trade easier (e.g. free flow of goods and services, and capital, referred to as \"free trade\"). The second is technological change, particularly developments in communication, information processing, and transportation technologies.\n\n\"International business\" is also defined as the study of the internationalization process of multinational enterprises. A multinational enterprise (MNE) is a company that has a worldwide approach to markets, production and/or operations in several countries. Well-known MNEs include fast-food companies such as: McDonald's (MCD), YUM (YUM), Starbucks Coffee Company (SBUX), Microsoft (MSFT), etc. Other industrial MNEs leaders include vehicle manufacturers such as: Ford Motor Company, and General Motors (GMC). Some consumer electronics producers such as Samsung, LG and Sony, and energy companies such as Exxon Mobil, and British Petroleum (BP) are also multinational enterprises. \n\nMultinational enterprises range from any kind of business activity or market, from consumer goods to machinery manufacture; a company can become an international business. Therefore, to conduct business overseas, companies should be aware of all the factors that might affect any business activities, including, but not limited to: difference in legal systems, political systems, economic policy, language, accounting standards, labor standards, living standards, environmental standards, local cultures, corporate cultures, foreign-exchange markets, tariffs, import and export regulations, trade agreements, climate, and education. Each of these factors may require changes in how companies operate from one country to another. Each factor makes a difference and a connection.\n\nOne of the first scholars to engage in developing a theory of multinational companies was Canadian economist Stephen Hymer. Throughout his academic life, he developed theories that sought to explain foreign direct investment (FDI) and why firms become multinational.\n\nThere were three phases of internationalization according to Hymer's work. The first phase of Hymer's work was his dissertation in 1960 called the \"International Operations of National Firms\". In this thesis, the author departs from neoclassical theory and opens up a new area of international production. At first, Hymer started analyzing neoclassical theory and financial investment, where the main reason for capital movement is the difference in interest rates. After this analysis, Hymer analyzed the characteristics of foreign investment by large companies for production and direct business purposes, calling this Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). By analyzing the two types of investments, Hymer distinguished financial investment from direct investment. The main distinguishing feature was control. Portfolio investment is a more passive approach, and the main purpose is financial gain, whereas in foreign direct investment a firm has control over the operations abroad. So, the traditional theory of investment based on differential interest rates does not explain the motivations for FDI.\n\nAccording to Hymer, there are two main determinants of FDI; where an imperfect market structure is the key element. The first is the firm-specific advantages which are developed at the specific companies home country and, profitably, used in the foreign country. The second determinant is the removal of control where Hymer wrote: \"When firms are interconnected, they compete in selling in the same market or one of the firms may sell to the other,\" and because of this \"it may be profitable to substitute centralized decision-making for decentralized decision-making\".\n\nHymer's second phase is his neoclassical article in 1968 that includes a theory of internationalization and explains the direction of growth of the international expansion of firms. In a later stage, Hymer went to a more Marxist approach where he explains that MNC as agents of an international capitalist system causing conflict and contradictions, causing among other things inequality and poverty in the world. Hymer is the \"father of the theory of MNEs\", and explains the motivations for companies doing direct business abroad.\n\nAmong modern economic theories of multinationals and foreign direct investment are internalization theory and John Dunning's OLI paradigm (standing for \"ownership, location and internationalization\"). Dunning was widely known for his research in economics of international direct investment and the multinational enterprise. His OLI paradigm, in particular, remains as the predominant theoretical contribution to study international business topics. Hymer and Dunning are considered founders of international business as a specialist field of study.\n\nThe conduct of international operations depends on a company's objectives and the means with which they carry them out. The operations affect and are affected by the physical and societal factors and the competitive environment.\n\nAll firms that want to go international have one goal in common; the desire to increase their respective economic values when engaging in international trade transactions. To accomplish this goal, each firm must develop its individual strategy and approach to maximize value, lower costs, and increase profits. A firm's value creation is the difference between (the value of the product being sold) and (the cost of production per each product sold).\n\nValue creation can be categorized as: \"primary activities\" (research and development, production, marketing and sales, customer service) and as \"support activities\" (information systems, logistics, human resources). All of these activities must be managed effectively and be consistent with the firm strategy. However, the success of firms that extend internationally depends on the goods or services sold and on the firm's core competencies (Skills within the firm that competitors cannot easily match or imitate). For a firm to be successful, the firm's strategy must be consistent with the environment in which the firm operates. Therefore, the firm needs to change its organizational structure to reflect changes in the setting in which they are operating and the strategy they are pursuing.\n\nOnce a firm decides to enter a foreign market, it must decide on a mode of entry. There are six different modes to enter a foreign market, and each mode has pros and cons that are associated with it. The firm must decide which mode is most appropriately aligned with the company's goals and objectives. The six different modes of entry are exporting, turnkey projects, licensing, franchising, establishing joint ventures with a host-country firm, or setting up a new wholly owned subsidiary in the host country.\n\nThe first entry mode is exporting. Exporting is the sale of a product in a different national market than a centralized hub of manufacturing. In this way, a firm may realize a substantial scale of economies from its global sales revenue. As an example, many Japanese automakers made inroads into the U.S. market through exporting. There are two primary advantages to exporting: avoiding high costs of establishing manufacturing in a host country (when these are higher) and gaining an experience curve. Some possible disadvantages to exporting are high transport costs and high tariff barriers.\n\nThe second entry mode is a turnkey project. In a turnkey project, an independent contractor is hired by the company to oversee all of the preparation for entering a foreign market. Once the preparation is complete and the end of the contract is reached, the plant is turned over to the company fully ready for operation.\n\nLicensing and franchising are two additional entry modes that are similar in operation. Licensing allows a licensor to grant the rights to an intangible property to the licensee for a specified period of time for a royalty fee. Franchising, on the other hand, is a specialized form of licensing in which the \"franchisor\" sells the intangible property to the franchisee, and also requires the franchisee operate as dictated by the franchisor.\n\nLastly, a joint venture and wholly owned subsidiary are two more entry modes in international business. A \"joint venture\" is when a firm created is jointly owned by two or more companies (Most joint venture are 50-50 partnerships). This is in contrast with a wholly owned subsidiary, when a firm owns 100 percent of the stock of a company in a foreign country because it has either set up a new operation or acquires an established firm in that country.\n\nExports and imports of merchandise: \n\nData is from the CIA World Factbook, compiled in 2017:\n\nStrategic variables affect the choice of entry mode for multinational corporation expansion beyond their domestic markets. These variables are global concentration, global synergies, and global strategic motivations of MNC.\n\n\n\n\nTo achieve success in penetrating a foreign market and remaining profitable, efforts must be directed towards the planning and execution of Phase I. The use of conventional SWOT analysis, market research, and cultural research, will give a firm appropriate tools to reduce risk of failure abroad. Risks that arise from poor planning include: large expenses in marketing, administration and product development (with no sales); disadvantages derived from local or federal laws of a foreign country, lack of popularity because of a saturated market, vandalism of physical property due to instability of country; etc. There are also cultural risks when entering a foreign market. Lack of research and understanding of local customs can lead to alienation of locals and brand dissociation. Strategic risks can be defined as the uncertainties and untapped opportunities embedded in your strategic intent and how well they are executed. As such, they are key matters for the board and impinge on the whole business, rather than just an isolated unit.\nA company has to be conscious about the production costs to not waste time and money. If the expenditures and costs are controlled, it will create an efficient production and help the internationalization. Operational risk is the prospect of loss resulting from inadequate or failed procedures, systems or policies; employee errors, systems failure, fraud or other criminal activity, or any event that disrupts business processes.\n\nHow a government governs a country (governance) can affect the operations of a firm. The government might be corrupt, hostile, or totalitarian; and may have a negative image around the globe. A firm's reputation can change if it operates in a country controlled by that type of government. Also, an unstable political situation can be a risk for multinational firms. Elections or any unexpected political event can change a country's situation and put a firm in an awkward position. Political risks are the likelihood that political forces will cause drastic changes in a country's business environment that hurt the profit and other goals of a business enterprise. Political risk tends to be greater in countries experiencing social unrest. When political risk is high, there is a high probability that a change will occur in the country's political environment that will endanger foreign firms there. Corrupt foreign governments may also take over the company without warning, as seen in Venezuela.\n\nTechnological improvements bring many benefits, but some disadvantages as well. Some of these risks include \"lack of security in electronic transactions, the cost of developing new technology ... the fact that this new technology may fail, and, when all of these are coupled with the outdated existing technology, [the fact that] the result may create a dangerous effect in doing business in the international arena.\"\n\nCompanies that establish a subsidiary or factory abroad need to be conscious about the externalizations they will produce, as some may have negative effects such as noise or pollution. This may cause aggravation to the people living there, which in turn can lead to a conflict. People want to live in a clean and quiet environment, without pollution or unnecessary noise. If a conflict arises, this may lead to a negative change in customer's perception of the company. Actual or potential threat of adverse effects on living organisms and environment by effluents, emissions, wastes, resource depletion, etc., arising out of an organization's activities is considered to be risks of the environment. As new business leaders come to fruition in their careers, it will be increasingly important to curb business activities and externalizations that may hurt the environment.\n\nThese are the economic risks explained by Professor Okolo: \"This comes from the inability of a country to meet its financial obligations. The changing of foreign-investment or/and domestic fiscal or monetary policies. The effect of exchange-rate and interest rate make it difficult to conduct international business.\" Moreover, it can be a risk for a company to operate in a country and they may experience an unexpected economic crisis after establishing the subsidiary. Economic risks is the likelihood that economic management will cause drastic changes in a country's business environment that hurt the profit and other goals of a business enterprise. In practice, the biggest problem arising from economic mismanagement has been inflation. Historically many governments have expanded their domestic money supplying misguided attempts to stimulate economic activity.\n\nAccording to Professor Okolo: \"This area is affected by the currency exchange rate, government flexibility in allowing the firms to repatriate profits or funds outside the country. The devaluation and inflation will also affect the firm's ability to operate at an efficient capacity and still be stable.\" Furthermore, the taxes that a company has to pay might be advantageous or not. It might be higher or lower in the host countries. Then \"the risk that a government will indiscriminately change the laws, regulations, or contracts governing an investment—or will fail to enforce them—in a way that reduces an investor's financial returns is what we call 'policy risk.'\"\n\nTerrorism is a voluntary act of violence towards a group(s) of people. In most cases, acts of terrorism is derived from hatred of religious, political and cultural beliefs. An example was the infamous 9/11 attacks, labeled as terrorism due to the massive damages inflicted on American society and the global economy stemming from the animosity towards Western culture by some radical Islamic groups. Terrorism not only affects civilians, but it also damages corporations and other businesses. These effects may include: physical vandalism or destruction of property, sales declining due to frightened consumers and governments issuing public safety restrictions. Firms engaging in international business will find it difficult to operate in a country that has an uncertain assurance of safety from these attacks.\n\nBribery is the act of receiving or soliciting of any items or services of value to influence the actions of a party with public or legal obligations. This is considered to an unethical form of practicing business and can have legal repercussions. Firm that want to operate legally should instruct employees to not involve themselves or the company in such activities. Companies should avoid doing business in countries where unstable forms of government exist as it could bring unfair advantages against domestic business and/or harm the social fabric of the citizens.\n\nThere has been growth in globalization in recent decades due to the following factors.\n\n\n\nManagers in international business must understand social science disciplines and how they affect different functional business fields.\n\nTo maintain and achieve successful business operations in foreign nations, persons must understand how variations in culture and traditions across nations affect business practices. This idea is known as cultural literacy. Without knowledge of a host country's culture, corporate strategizing is more difficult and error-prone when entering foreign markets compared with the home country's market and culture. This can create a \"blind spot\" during the decision making process and result in ethnocentrism. Education about international business introduces the student to new concepts that can be applicable in international strategy in topics such as marketing and operations.\n\nA considerable advantage in international business is gained through the knowledge and use of language, thereby mitigating a language barrier. Advantages of being an international businessperson who is fluent in the local language include the following:\n\nIn many cases, it plays a crucial role. It is truly impossible to gain an understanding of a culture's buying habits without first taking the time to understand the culture. Examples of the benefit of understanding local culture include the following:\n\nThe international business standards focus on the following:\nBy focusing on these, students will gain a better understanding of Political economy. These are tools that would help future business people bridge the economic and political gap between countries.\n\nThere is an increasing amount of demand for business people with an education in international business. A survey conducted by Thomas Patrick from University of Notre Dame concluded that bachelor's degree and master's degree holders felt that the training received through education were very practical in the working environment. Increasingly, companies are sourcing their human resource requirement globally. For example, at Sony Corporation, only fifty percent of its employees are Japanese. Business people with an education in international business also had a significantly higher chance of being sent abroad to work under the international operations of a firm.\n\nThe following table provides descriptions of higher education in international business and its benefits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45462258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45462258", "title": "List of World Branding Awards winners", "text": "List of World Branding Awards winners\n\nThe List of World Branding Awards winners provide details of the winners of the World Branding Awards, an international award presented to some of the best global and national brands for their work and achievements in branding. The awards are organised by the World Branding Forum, a registered global non-profit organisation based in London.\n\nThe first awards ceremony was held at One Whitehall Place at the Royal Horseguards Hotel in London on October 26, 2014. The event was hosted by David Croft from Sky Sports.\n\nSixty nine brands from 25 countries won an award. Each brand is named \"Brand of the Year\" in their respective categories. The \"Brand of the Year\" logo is a registered trademark. The awards gave special recognition to Tony Fernandes, Group CEO of AirAsia and Chairman of Queens Park Rangers F.C., naming him \"Brand Builder of the Year\" for his outstanding work in building the airline brand.\n\nThe second part of the 2014-2015 awards, took place at the in France on 24 March 2015. The Paris ceremony had an emphasis on food, beverage, luxury, fashion, lifestyle, hospitality, and service brands. Fifty brands from 22 countries were awarded at this ceremony.\n\nIn 2015, 118 brands from 30 countries were honoured with an award. The ceremony took place at Kensington Palace in London. The event was hosted by Olivia Wayne from Sky Sports.\n\nIn 2016, over 120,000 consumers from around the world voted for more than 2,800 brands from 35 countries. 210 brands from 30 countries were declared winners. The ceremony was held again in London's Kensington Palace. Guests included the United Arab Emirates Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Sulaiman Almazroui, and the Philippines Ambassador, Evan Garcia. The event was hosted by David Croft.\n\nIn 2017, over 3,000 brands from 35 countries were nominated, and more than 135,000 consumers from around the world participated during the voting period. 245 Brands from 32 countries were awarded.\n\nIn 2018, the Americas Edition of the awards saw over 80,000 consumers vote for more than 1,500 brands from 22 countries from Americas and the Caribbean. There were 81 brands from 16 countries awarded.\n\nThe awards trophy is made in England, and is on display at the Museum of Brands, Packaging & Advertising in London. In 2016, a newly designed 24 karat gold plated trophy was introduced for all winners. This new design is a solid trophy which highlights the \"Brand of the Year\" registered trademark logo.\n\nThe 2018 Americas Edition of the awards was held at The Plaza on Fifth Avenue in New York City.\n\nThe awards ceremony for the 2017 awards took place at Kensington Palace in London.\n\nThe awards ceremony for the 2016 awards took place at Kensington Palace in London.\n\nThe awards ceremony for the 2015 awards took place at the State Apartments of Kensington Palace in London.\n\nWinners of the World Branding Awards, presented in London and Paris.\n\nThe Animalis Edition of the World Branding awards focuses on pet and animal brands. The awards ceremony for 2017 took place at the Hofburg Palace in Vienna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7128959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7128959", "title": "Managerialism", "text": "Managerialism\n\nManagerialism, on one level, involves belief in the value of professional managers and of the concepts and methods they use. Contemporary writers on management such as Thomas Diefenbach associate managerialism with hierarchy. But scholars have also linked managerialism to control,\nto accountability\nand measurement, and to an ideologically determined belief in the importance of tightly-managed organizations,\nas opposed to individuals or to groups that do not resemble an organization.\n\nFollowing Enteman's 1993 classic on \"Managerialism: The Emergence of a New Ideology\",\nAmerican management experts Robert Locke and J C Spender see managerialism as an expression of a special group – management – that entrenches itself ruthlessly and systemically in an organization. It deprives owners of decision-making power and workers of their ability to resist managerialism. In fact the rise of managerialism may in itself be a response to people's resistance in society and more specifically to workers' opposition against managerial regimes.\n\nBuilding on Enteman (1993) and Locke/Spender (2011), Thomas Klikauer in “Managerialism – Critique of an Ideology” (2013) defined managerialism thus: \"[...] Managerialism combines management knowledge and ideology to establish itself systemically in organisations and society while depriving owners, employees (organisational-economical) and civil society (social-political) of all decision-making powers. Managerialism justifies the application of managerial techniques to all areas of society on the grounds of superior ideology, expert training, and the exclusive possession of managerial knowledge necessary to efficiently run corporations and societies.\" As the simple management of Henri Fayol (1841-1925) and Frederick Winslow Taylor (1856-1915) mutated into managerialism, managerialism became a full-fledged ideology under the following formula:Management + Ideology + Expansion = Managerialism Two examples of the extension of management into the non-management domain – the not for profit sphere of human existence – are public schools and universities. In both cases, managerialism occurs when public institutions are run “as if” these were for-profit organization even though they remain government institutions funded through state taxes. In these cases, the term new public management has been used. But the ideology of managerialism can even extend into more distant institutions such as, for example, a College of Physicians.\n----Albert A. Anderson summarized managerialism as the ideological principle that sees societies as equivalent to the sum of the decisions and transactions made by the managements of organizations.\nCompare what the historian James Hoopes wrote (2003):\n\"[...] the main genesis of managerialism lay in the human relations movement that took root at the Harvard Business School in the 1920s and 1930s under the guiding hand of Professor Elton Mayo. Mayo, an immigrant from Australia, saw democracy as divisive and lacking in community spirit. He looked to corporate managers to restore the social harmony that he believed the uprooting experiences of immigration and industrialization had destroyed and that democracy was incapable of repairing.\"\nThe managerialist society is not one which responds to the needs, desires, and wishes of a majority of its citizens, but one which is influenced by organizations. The managerialist society responds to the managements of various organizations in relation to their transactions with each other. The needs, desires and wishes of the individual are heard through their membership of an organization. Furthermore, managerialism is both a process and a substantive ideology. Managerialism says that the fundamental social units are not individuals, as capitalism would declare, but rather that the fundamental social units are organizations. Ultimately, managerialism specifically denies that the fundamental nature of society is an aggregation of individuals.\n\nInstead, managerialism sees the core building-block of contemporary society as the modern business company or corporation. To further business, companies, and corporations is the ideological goal of managerialism. How managerialism functions as such an ideology has been perfectly expressed by one of managerialism's main ideological flagships – the \"Harvard Business Review\" - when the \"HBR\"'s former editor Joan Magretta (2012: 80-81) made the following stunning revelation:[i] Business executives are society's leading champions of free markets and competition, words that, for them, evoke a world view and value system that rewards good ideas and hard work, and that fosters innovation and meritocracy. Truth be told, the competition every manager longs for is a lot closer to Microsoft's end of the spectrum than it is to the dairy farmers'. All the talk about the virtues of competition notwithstanding, the aim of business strategy is to move an enterprise away from perfect competition and in the direction of monopoly.\n----[i] Magretta, J. 2012. \"What Management Is: How it works and why it's everyone's business\", London: Profile.\n\nManagerialism in political science is a set of beliefs, attitudes and values which support the view that management is the most essential and desirable element of good administration and government. It follows that in all enterprises and services, both private and public, expertise in management must be taught by training and by incentives to excel. In the political world this may take the form of asserting that much conflict and argument are unnecessary for solving problems. All that is needed is a rational assessment of the problem and this involves gathering and collating information, listing the options, calculating costs of each, evaluating consequences and choosing the best course of action. Recent managerialism has included such devices as \"performance indicators\" (purporting to measure the relative efficiencies of different managers) and \"market testing\" (which compares public sector managers' responsibilities and tasks with those of managers in the private sector in order to assess their pay). Managerialism is criticized for weakening the public-service ethos.\n\nIf one were to conceive of society as a nation, such as the United States, managerialism concludes that there is no single United States and that individual Americans should not be identified as the fundamental nature of the country. Rather, the country is basically composed of numerous groups which collectively make up the country we call the United States. \nThe government is a part of the managerial process. The management of different groups will attempt to influence the direction of government action. Their success or failure will depend upon their ability to pursue their case and upon their ability to blunt the cases of competitors. The success of the subunits depends upon the ability of their managements and other factors such as size, cohesiveness, managerial discretion, and control of resources. Government itself is a collection of governmental units. The government is not state.\n\nEconomically, managerialism is the application of managerial techniques in businesses. Managerialism in this regard has to do with the strategic approach of goal-setting. In order to achieve previously unimagined levels of accumulation and production, businesses within a capitalist economy needed a way of connecting their strategic plan of actions to desired implementations of those plans. Within an organization, the individuals at the top of the organizational hierarchy determine a mission or set of goals, which is then strategically analyzed by individuals lower on the hierarchy (managers) to devise local goals to carry out the overall mission. Put simply, the managerial standard is to receive goals from above and to create new goals for those below.\n\nThere is a belief that in managerialism, organizations have more similarities than differences, and thus the performance of all organizations can be optimized by the application of generic management skills and theory. To a practitioner of managerialism, there is little difference in the skills required to run a college, an advertising agency or an oil rig. Experience and skills pertinent to an organization's core business are considered secondary.\n\nThe term \"managerialism\" can be used disparagingly to describe organizations perceived to have a preponderance or excess of managerial techniques, solutions, rules and personnel, especially if these seem to run counter to the common sense of observers. It is said that the MBA degree is intended to provide generic skills to a new class of managers not wedded to a particular industry or professional sector.\n\nThere have been mixed reviews on the efficacy of managerialism, explored extensively in university studies of the State. Some have accepted the flaws in the theory, building upon it and putting it forth as a valid theory of the State. Others have outright rejected such a proposition, responding that - regardless of the few similarities - such a system could not be successful on a political level.\n\nThe word \"managerialism\" can also be used pejoratively, as in the definition of a management caste. Robert R. Locke defines it accordingly as:\n\"What occurs when a special group, called management, ensconces itself systemically in an organization and deprives owners and employees of their decision-making power (including the distribution of emolument), and justifies that takeover on the grounds of the managing group's education and exclusive possession of the codified bodies of knowledge and know-how necessary to the efficient running of the organization.\"\nManagerialism – also called New Managerialism and New Public Management – is an ideology used for legitimizing the development of new organizational forms and relationships. It has been coined a practical ideology of being 'business-like’ in order to make the new arrangements work for all forms of jobs, organizations, and education systems. The ‘business-like’ indicates what is called “as if” ideologies. Managerialism is conceptualized in that it seeks firstly to explain the socioeconomic and political reasons behind why particular organizations have been developed and, secondly, to describe the ways in which public services are currently being delivered. The idea of Managerialism came to fruition when new organizational forms originated from a view that professional bureaucratic modes of organization were inefficient and could not cope with the challenges rising from increasing globalization. Managerialism, however, has not remained static over the years as it has had many different versions of its implementation. Its linkage to the changing practices associated with an agenda moves away from a purely Neo-liberal framework. While neo-liberalism uses politics (e.g. elections) to achieve its goals, Managerialism is fundamentally anti-democratic following instead management’s command-and-control concept. While using business-like mechanisms to ensure great cost effectiveness is still used as a great technique. There have been movements away from purely market based systems that were in place strictly for efficiency, to contractual mechanisms and performance measurement through audit and review. In practice of Managerialism, consumers are redefined as well. Not only do consumers have choice in regard to where and how they receive their services, but they should be actively involved in determining what services should be provided as well. In new Managerialism consumers are redefined as well. Not only should they have choice regarding where and how they receive their services, but they should be actively involved in determining what services should be provided as well. The Managerialism explains public services not as production functions or firms, but as governance structures. What is at stake is not so much the ethos and practice of management as the culture and structure of governance. Here governance means the organisational culture and structure of the relationship between what Weber called legitimate domination and the self-constitution of those who are subject to it. What Weber meant by legitimate domination was justified by an authority structure, which was, in turn, legitimated by rational authority. Hence, one finds a renewed interest of Managerialism in fostering managerial leadership. But governance through Managerialism was never only dependent for its legitimization on Weber’s notion of legal-rational authority, but more on forms of rationality that depend upon, for example, strategic management, cost-benefit-analysis, efficiency in the market, etc. Although this Managerialism draws on models of corporate Managerialism as well as accounts of New Public Management, it is also imbued with the practices of self in everyday life. What is new here, is recognition of the technologies of self that individuals employ to implicate themselves in their own governance. This creates what became known as “The Entrepreneurial Self”. The way Managerialism achieves this, for example, at university levels is through a re-formulation of research and science, as outlined in the table below.\n\n George Elton Mayo \n\"One friend, one person who is truly understanding, who takes the trouble to listen to us as we consider our problems, can change our whole outlook on the work\"\n\nGeorge Elton Mayo was an Australian psychologist and organizational theorist. A former professor of Industrial Management at the Harvard Business School, Mayo heavily researched the behavior of workers at Western Electric; a manufacturing facet of AT&T. Today he is considered a major contributor to the intellectual thought process and ideas of business management, as well as critical theories of industrial and organizational psychology. His book, \"The Human Problems of an Industrialized Civilization\" articulates his collective thoughts taken from the famous Hawthorne research study conducted while at Harvard University.\n\n\"Society does not consist of individuals but expresses the sum of interrelations, the relations within which these individuals stand.\"\n\nKarl Marx has set many standards in the fields of philosophy, economics, and sociology as one of the worlds most prominent thinkers. Commonly known for his ideas outlined in \"The Communist Manifesto\" and \"\" Marx has exemplified ideas of management and order with his very apparent socialistic views. Sociologically Marx has identified core interrelations between groups of people classified by class structures, and how those relations lead to the success or failures of a collective society.\n\n\"To do great things is difficult; but to command great things is more difficult\"\n\nA 19th century German philosopher, Friedrich Nietzsche heavily contributed to the fields of management and leadership. Focussing in on ideas of morality; particularly distinguishing the differences between what he labeled the, \"master morality,\" and \"slave morality,\" Nietzsche has exemplified the development of managerial practices through the subjections of moral emphasis and control. \"He was especially interested, therefore, in a probing analysis and evaluation of the fundamental cultural values of Western philosophy, religion, and morality, which he characterized as expressions of the ascetic ideal.\"http://www.britannica.com/biography/Friedrich-Nietzsche\n\nThe history of Managerialism is linked to the teachings of Karl Marx. In his collection of books over capitalism appropriately named he writes about how when capitalist merge with other capitalist and two corporations come together, they are more likely to become diluted and when that happens those who were once wise business leaders were to be just aimless managers he stated his belief in his books (only volume 1 was published while he was alive) as follows, \"Transformation of the actually functioning capitalist into a mere manager, an administrator of other people's capital, and of the owners of capital into mere owners, mere money-capitalists.\". Marx is talking about what would later be known as Managerialism which is first used by James Burnham who in his book \"The Managerial Revolution\" expresses his ideas on the difference between Capitalism and Managerialism stating that when the owners of capital are no longer the ones in charge, and managers, relying on only principle are in charge then it is no longer Capitalism, it is now considered Managerialism. Burnham's ideas, in both that book and a subsequent book \"The Machiavellians\" and also in articles which were published in Partisan Review, and elsewhere are thoroughly criticised by George Orwell in his 1946 essay \"Second Thoughts on James Burnham\" (first published in \"Polemic\" (London).\n\nCompare:\n\n"}
{"id": "26470773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26470773", "title": "Metrics Reference Model", "text": "Metrics Reference Model\n\nThe metrics reference model (MRM) is the reference model created by the Consortium for Advanced Management-International (CAM-I) to be a single reference library of performance metrics. This library is useful for accelerating to development of and improving the content of any organization's business intelligence solution.\n\nThe MRM was created by the Business Intelligence Working Group of CAM-I. Substantial secondary research performed by the group revealed that there was no single, central location for performance metrics information. All published material focused on a single dimension of performance metrics (e.g., financial), or focused on how to use such metrics to affect the performance of an organization. Exhaustive lists of performance metrics that were generic to nearly any organization across all aspects of the business (e.g., customer, product/service, employee) were not found. Furthermore, without a single reference point, no research was located where the relationships between these performance metrics had been documented and described.\n\nMRM is a technology agnostic reference model based on the basic elements of a generic organization for which cost, process, and performance improvements may be desired.\n\nIn keeping with CAM-I's generic model of an organization, these elements include:\n\nThe figure below illustrates the flow between these components in a typical organization. \n\nFor each of the organizational elements, the MRM provides a comprehensive list of cost, process, and performance metrics of possible interest to many organizations. For example, some of the performance metrics provided for the employee organizational element include average customer review, customer retention rate, sales per customer/spending rate, average quantity per customer order, order frequency, average number of orders per customer, and average customer lifetime value.\n\nFor each performance metric, this information is also provided:\n\nThe benefit of the MRM is that each metric has already been identified, defined, and considered by a group of experienced business intelligence professionals. The idea of the MRM is for the business intelligence (BI) practitioner to follow these steps:\n\nHow the MRM may be used practically in the industry depends on whether an individual or an organization is considered.\n\nIndividual interest in the MRM:\n\n\nThe MRM to be used in a number of different ways, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31897073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31897073", "title": "Mobile file management", "text": "Mobile file management\n\nMobile file management (MFM) is a type of information technology (IT) software that allows businesses to manage transfers and storage of corporate files and other related items on a mobile device, and allows the business to oversee user access. Mobile file management software is typically installed on a corporate file server like Windows 2008, and on a mobile device such as tablet computers and smartphones, e.g., Android, iPad, iPhone, etc. Other features include the ability to remotely wipe a lost or stolen device, access, cache and store files on a mobile device and integrate with file permission solutions like those from Microsoft's Active Directory.\n\nA main advantage of modern mobile file management solutions is that they do not need a VPN connection for the mobile devices to connect to the corporate file servers. The connection between the mobile device and the corporate file server is established via a cloud service. This way the corporate file server doesn't need to open incoming ports which would cause security issues. The files are transferred highly encrypted e.g. according to AES 256-bit industry standard. Only the company server and the mobile device keep the encryption key to be able to encrypt and decrypt the files. So nobody, not even the mobile file management solution provider, can access the files.\n\nThird-party cloud-based companies provide solutions which can be used to manage mobile files but are not controlled by corporate IT organizations. Companies that utilize Mobile Device Management solutions can also secure content on mobile devices, but usually cannot provide direct access and connection to a corporate file server.\n\nFile management is how the computer operating system keeps data organized through the use of files and folders, how they are arranged, and how they are listed in a hierarchical order. Mobile file management allows file management to be used on tablet computers. By installing it both on the tablet and the corporate server, users of mobile devices can freely access corporate servers from remote locations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1160722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160722", "title": "Negotiable instrument", "text": "Negotiable instrument\n\nA negotiable instrument is a document guaranteeing the payment of a specific amount of money, either on demand, or at a set time, with the payer usually named on the document. More specifically, it is a document contemplated by or consisting of a contract, which promises the payment of money without condition, which may be paid either on demand or at a future date. The term can have different meanings, depending on what law is being applied and what country and context it is used in.\n\nIn the Commonwealth of Nations almost all jurisdictions have codified the law relating to negotiable instruments in a Bills of Exchange Act, e.g. Bills of Exchange Act 1882 in the UK, Bills of Exchange Act 1908 in New Zealand, Bills of Exchange Act 1909 in Australia, the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 in India and the Bills of Exchange Act 1914 in Mauritius. The Bills of Exchange Act:\n\nAdditionally most Commonwealth jurisdictions have separate Cheques Acts providing for additional protections for bankers collecting unendorsed or irregularly endorsed cheques, providing that cheques that are crossed and marked 'not negotiable' or similar are not transferable, and providing for electronic presentation of cheques in inter-bank cheque clearing systems.\n\nThe ancient Romans are believed to have used an early form of cheque known as \"praescriptiones\" in the 1st century BCE and 2,000-year-old Roman promissory notes have been found\n\nCommon prototypes of bills of exchanges and promissory notes originated in China, where special instruments called \"feitsyan\" were used to safely transfer money over long distances during the reign of the Tang Dynasty in the 8th century.\n\nAround 1150 the Knights Templar issued bank notes to pilgrims, pilgrims deposited their valuables with a local Templar preceptory before embarking, received a document indicating the value of their deposit, then used that document upon arrival in the Holy Land to retrieve their funds in an amount of treasure of equal value.\n\nIn the mid-13th century, the Ilkhanid rulers of Persia printed the \"cha\" or \"chap\" which was used as paper money for limited usage for transactions between the court and the merchants for about three years before it collapsed. The collapse was caused by the court accepting the \"cha\" only at progressive discount.\n\nLater, such documents were used for money transfer by Middle Eastern merchants, who had used the prototypes of bills of exchange (\"suftadja\" or \"softa\") from the 8th century to present. Such prototypes came to be used later by the Iberian and Italian merchants in the 12th century. In Italy in the 13–15th centuries, bills of exchange and promissory notes obtained their main features, while further phases of their development have been associated with France (16–18th centuries, where the endorsement had appeared) and Germany (19th century, formalization of Exchange Law). The first mention of the use of bills of exchange in English statutes dates from 1381, under Richard II; the statute mandates the use of such instruments in England, and prohibits the future export of gold and silver specie, in any form, to settle foreign commercial transactions. English exchange law was different than continental European law because of different legal systems; the English system was adopted later in the United States.\n\nThe modern emphasis on negotiability may also be traced to Lord Mansfield. Germanic Lombards documents may also have some elements of negotiability.\n\nA negotiable instrument can serve to convey value constituting at least part of the performance of a contract, albeit perhaps not obvious in contract formation, in terms inherent in and arising from the requisite offer and acceptance and conveyance of consideration. The underlying contract contemplates the right to hold the instrument as, and to negotiate the instrument to, a \"holder in due course\", the payment on which is at least part of the performance of the contract to which the negotiable instrument is linked. The instrument, memorializing: (1) the power to demand payment; and, (2) the right to be paid, can move, for example, in the instance of a \"bearer instrument\", wherein the possession of the document itself attributes and ascribes the right to payment. Certain exceptions exist, such as instances of loss or theft of the instrument, wherein the possessor of the note may be a holder, but not necessarily a holder in due course. Negotiation requires a valid \"endorsement\" of the negotiable instrument.\n\nThe consideration constituted by a negotiable instrument is cognizable as the value given up to acquire it (benefit) and the consequent loss of value (detriment) to the prior holder; thus, no separate consideration is required to support an accompanying contract assignment. The instrument itself is understood as memorializing the right for, and power to demand, payment, and an obligation for payment evidenced by the instrument itself with possession as a holder in due course being the touchstone for the right to, and power to demand, payment. In some instances, the negotiable instrument can serve as the writing memorializing a contract, thus satisfying any applicable statute of frauds as to that contract.\n\nThe rights of a holder in due course of a negotiable instrument are qualitatively, as matters of law, superior to those provided by ordinary species of contracts:\n\nNegotiation often enables the transferee to become the party to the contract through a contract assignment (provided for explicitly or by operation of law) and to enforce the contract in the transferee-assignee’s own name. Negotiation can be effected by endorsement and delivery (order instruments), or by delivery alone (bearer instruments).\n\nPromissory notes and bills of exchange are two primary types of negotiable instruments.\n\nAlthough possibly non-negotiable, a promissory note may be a negotiable instrument if it is an unconditional promise in writing made by one person to another, signed by the maker, engaging to pay on demand to the \"payee\", or at fixed or determinable future time, certain in money, to order or to bearer. (see Sec. 194) The law applicable to the specific instrument will determine whether it is a negotiable instrument or a non-negotiable instrument.\n\nBank notes are frequently referred to as promissory notes, a promissory note made by a bank and payable to bearer on demand. According to section 4 of India's Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, \"a Promissory Note is an writing (not being a bank note or currency note), containing an unconditional undertaking, signed by the maker to pay a certain sum of money only to or to the order of a certain person or the bearer of the instrument\".\n\nA bill of exchange or \"draft\" is a written order by the \"drawer\" to the \"drawee\" to pay money to the \"payee\". A common type of bill of exchange is the cheque (\"check\" in American English), defined as a bill of exchange drawn on a banker and payable on demand. Bills of exchange are used primarily in international trade, and are written orders by one person to his bank to pay the bearer a specific sum on a specific date. Prior to the advent of paper currency, bills of exchange were a common means of exchange. They are not used as often today.\n\nA bill of exchange is essentially an order made by one person to another to pay money to a third person. A bill of exchange requires in its inception three parties—the drawer, the drawee, and the payee. The person who draws the bill is called the drawer. He gives the order to pay money to the third party. The party upon whom the bill is drawn is called the drawee. He is the person to whom the bill is addressed and who is ordered to pay. He becomes an acceptor when he indicates his willingness to pay the bill. The party in whose favor the bill is drawn or is payable is called the payee. The parties need not all be distinct persons. Thus, the drawer may draw on himself payable to his own order.\nA bill of exchange may be endorsed by the payee in favour of a third party, who may in turn endorse it to a fourth, and so on indefinitely. The \"holder in due course\" may claim the amount of the bill against the drawee and all previous endorsers, regardless of any counterclaims that may have disabled the previous payee or endorser from doing so. This is what is meant by saying that a bill is negotiable.\nIn some cases a bill is marked \"not negotiable\"—see crossing of cheques. In that case it can still be transferred to a third party, but the third party can have no better right than the transferor.\n\nIn the United States, Articles 3 and 4 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) govern the issuance and transfer of negotiable instruments, unless the instruments are governed by Article 8 of the UCC. The various state law enactments of UCC §§ 3–104(a) through (d) set forth the legal definition of what is and what is not a \"negotiable instrument\":\n\nThus, for a writing to be a negotiable instrument under Article 3, the following requirements must be met:\nThe latter requirement is referred to as the \"words of negotiability\": a writing which does not contain the words \"to the order of\" (within the four corners of the instrument or in endorsement on the note or in allonge) or indicate that it is payable to the individual holding the contract document (analogous to the holder in due course) is not a negotiable instrument and is not governed by Article 3, even if it appears to have all of the other features of negotiability. The only exception is that if an instrument meets the definition of a cheque (a bill of exchange payable on demand and drawn on a bank) and is not payable to order (i.e. if it just reads \"pay John Doe\") then it is treated as a negotiable instrument.\n\nUCC Article 3 does not apply to money, to payment orders governed by Article 4A, or to securities governed by Article 8.\n\nPersons other than the original obligor and obligee can become parties to a negotiable instrument. The most common manner in which this is done is by placing one's signature on the instrument (\"endorsement\"): if the person who signs does so with the intention of obtaining payment of the instrument or acquiring or transferring rights to the instrument, the signature is called an \"endorsement\". There are five types of endorsements contemplated by the Code, covered in UCC Article 3, Sections 204–206:\nIf a note or draft is negotiated to a person who acquires the instrument\nthe transferee is a \"holder in due course\" and can enforce the instrument \"without\" being subject to defenses which the maker of the instrument would be able to assert against the original payee, except for certain \"real defenses\". These real defenses include (1) forgery of the instrument; (2) fraud as to the nature of the instrument being signed; (3) alteration of the instrument; (4) incapacity of the signer to contract; (5) infancy of the signer; (6) duress; (7) discharge in bankruptcy; and, (8) the running of a statute of limitations as to the validity of the instrument.\nThe \"holder-in-due-course rule\" is a \"rebuttable presumption\" that makes the free transfer of negotiable instruments feasible in the modern economy. A person or entity purchasing an instrument in the ordinary course of business can reasonably expect that it will be paid when presented to, and not subject to dishonor by, the maker, without involving itself in a dispute between the maker and the person to whom the instrument was first issued (this can be contrasted to the lesser rights and obligations accruing to mere holders). Article 3 of the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in a particular State's law contemplate \"real defenses\" available to purported holders in due course.\nThe foregoing is the theory and application presuming compliance with the relevant law. Practically, the obligor-payor on an instrument who feels he has been defrauded or otherwise unfairly dealt with by the payee may nonetheless refuse to pay even a holder in due course, requiring the latter to resort to litigation to recover on the instrument.\n\nWhile bearer instruments are rarely created as such, a holder of commercial paper with the holder designated as payee can change the instrument to a bearer instrument by an endorsement. The proper holder simply signs the back of the instrument and the instrument becomes bearer paper, although in recent years, third party checks are not being honored by most banks unless the original payee has signed a notarized document stating such.\n\nAlternatively, an individual or company may write a check payable to \"cash\" or \"bearer\" and create a bearer instrument. Great care should be taken with the security of the instrument, as it is legally almost as good as cash.\n\nUnder the Code, the following are not negotiable instruments, although the law governing obligations with respect to such items may be similar to or derived from the law applicable to negotiable instruments:\n\nAlthough often considered foundational in business law, the modern relevance of negotiability has been questioned. Negotiability can be traced back to the 1700s and Lord Mansfield, when money and liquidity was relatively scarce. The holder in due course rule has been limited by various statutes. Concerns have also been raised that the holder in due course rule does not align the incentives of the mortgage originators and the assignees efficiently.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56676228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56676228", "title": "Playbour", "text": "Playbour\n\nPlaybour (sometimes spelled playbor) is a term used to describe a hybrid form of play and labour, specifically in the digital games industry. The term was coined by Julian Kücklich in 2005 in his article \"Precarious playbour: Modders and the digital games industry.\" Kücklich describes playbour as a type of free labour that fits neither traditional definitions of work nor the categories of play or leisure. Nevertheless, forms of playbour are often incorrectly perceived as being just an extension of play. Playbour is also sometimes categorized as a part of the gamification of society in general.\n\nWhile the term playbour itself is a relatively new invention, the phenomena it concerns – those of productive leisure and free labour in the digital games industry – have been around at least since the late 1990s. Kücklich states that since the early 1990s, the relationship between the players of digital games and the digital games industry has changed substantially. He attributes the alteration to the rise of computer game modification, or \"modding\", as a widespread practice among players.\n\nCreating mods for digital games is the perfect example of playbour: a growing number of consumers of digital games are not satisfied with just playing the game, but prefer to enhance their playing experience by creating content for the game themselves. In modding we can see the very essence of playbour, or free labour: while the work of creating a modification can be seen as playful and enjoyable, it is still work. In this respect modding can be fairly similar to another form of collaborative digital production; open-source software development. The first game to gain a modder base of considerable size is widely agreed to be Doom (1993). The emergence of Doom mods is usually attributed to the fact that the game's code was deliberately designed to facilitate player-created content. The most famous modder creation is probably Counter-Strike, originally a team-based mod for Half-Life (1998). It later also became the first commercially released mod.\n\nNot only is modding a big part of gaming culture, but it is also an increasingly important source of value for the digital games industry. Game companies usually retain the intellectual property rights of the modifications. Since players need to have a copy of the original game to run the modifications, mods may add to the shelf-life of the product. In addition to that, mods may help with establishing brands (e.g. Counter-Strike), thus saving companies a significant amount of money. Marketing costs often take up a large percentage of a game's budget, but successfully established brands require less marketing. Mods also increase customer loyalty and are an important source of innovation in the digital games industry. Another way that game companies can benefit from the modding culture is that they can recruit modders as employees who are already trained at no cost to the company.\n\nWhile game companies may benefit economically from playbour, the players doing the work are not entirely uncompensated: they may obtain virtual in-game rewards or social capital such as followers on social media. The experience of play also has value in itself. Playbour is a voluntary activity and players don't usually view modding as labour. Nevertheless, it has been suggested that playboures are exploited by the games industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "51783746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51783746", "title": "Recruitee", "text": "Recruitee\n\nRecruitee is Software as a service (Saas) that functions as an applicant tracking system (ATS). It includes a careers site editor for employer branding, a plugin for sourcing (personnel), job board integration, email and calendar synchronization. Within 4 months after its public launch in August 2015, Recruitee attracted over 1000 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and recruiting agencies worldwide.\n\nIn 2011, Perry Oostdam met Pawel Smoczyk on Founder2be, a social network that helps aspiring entrepreneurs find their co-founder. Working remotely from the Netherlands and Poland, they put together their first product - a mobile activation game called GeoRun.\n\nIn 2014, Oostdam and Smoczyk pivoted the business and built Recruitee out of their own frustration with the hassles of hiring. They believe hiring should be a team effort, not only for founders and HR alone.\n\nAfter its launch, Recruitee quickly became popular and got an undisclosed amount of seed funding in September 1, 2015. Its board members include Dutch entrepreneurs Robert Pijselman and Luc Brandts.\n\nIn November 2015, Recruitee announced a partnership with Rockstart, an accelerator in Amsterdam. Recruitee set up a Talent Pool that let applicants apply to job openings from all startups that are and were affiliated with Rockstart.\n\nRecruitee's current clients include Vice (magazine), Usabilla, and Vlisco.\n\nUsers can customize the hiring pipeline for each job opening. Users can drag and drop candidates' profiles to different stages as they move along the hiring process. Users can post job openings to free and paid job boards from Recruitee.\n\nUsers can bulk upload résumés, synchronize emails and calendars to Recruitee and Users can send bulk emails to candidates.\n\nUsers can import potential candidates from websites by using Recruitee's sourcing extension for Google Chrome and Firefox.\n\nUsers can make careers sites to showcase their employer branding like company, team, and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "56855099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56855099", "title": "SITEI", "text": "SITEI\n\nThe SITEI (Sustainability in the Extractive Industries) Conference is an annual conference and workshop for key stakeholders and industry experts in extractive industries, which has been held in Abuja, Nigeria, since 2012.\n\nThe SITEI Conference was established together with the Deputy High Commission of Canada in October 2012, in Lagos. Over the years, the conferences have been attended by business executives, the most senior government officers for the industries, and the representatives of various organizations.\n\nAt the 2015 conference, all the stakeholders including the Nigerian government endorsed plans to develop the mining industry of Nigeria. The 2017 conference grew to two days, featuring 25 speakers from the sector and 500 senior executives.\n\nThe conferences have been organized by sustainability consultancy CSR-in-Action in partnership with NEITI and the Nigerian Government Chapter of the global Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). The main conveners have been Bekeme Masade of CSR-in-Action and Meka Olowola of Zenera Consulting, who is chairman of the SITEI Committee.\n"}
{"id": "37040021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37040021", "title": "Single customer view", "text": "Single customer view\n\nA single customer view is an aggregated, consistent and holistic representation of the data held by an organisation about its customers that can be viewed in one place, such as a single page. The advantage to an organisation of attaining this unified view comes from the ability it gives to analyse past behaviour in order to better target and personalise future customer interactions. A single customer view is also considered especially relevant where organisations engage with customers through multichannel marketing, since customers expect those interactions to reflect a consistent understanding of their history and preferences. However, some commentators have challenged the idea that a single view of customers across an entire organisation is either natural or meaningful, proposing that the priority should instead be consistency between the multiple views that arise in different contexts.\n\nWhere representations of a customer are held in more than one data set, achieving a single customer view can be difficult: firstly because customer identity must be traceable between the records held in those systems, and secondly because anomalies or discrepancies in the customer data must be data cleansed. As such, the acquisition by an organisation of a single customer view is one potential outcome of successful master data management. Since 31 December, 2010, maintaining a single customer view, and submitting it within 72 hours, has become mandatory for financial institutions in the United Kingdom due to new rules introduced by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "426334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426334", "title": "Small and medium-sized enterprises", "text": "Small and medium-sized enterprises\n\nSmall and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) or small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) are businesses whose personnel numbers fall below certain limits. The abbreviation \"SME\" is used by international organizations such as the World Bank, the United Nations and the World Trade Organization (WTO).\n\nSMEs outnumber large companies by a wide margin and also employ many more people. For example, Australian SMEs make up 97% of all Australian businesses, produced one third of total GDP, and employ 4.7 million people. In Chile, in the commercial year 2014, 98.5% of the firms were classified as SMEs. In Tunisia, the self-employed workers alone account for about 28% of the total non-farm employment and firms with fewer than 100 employees account for about 62% of total employment. In developing countries, smaller (micro) and informal firms, have a larger share than in developed countries. SMEs are also said to be responsible for driving innovation and competition in many economic sectors. Although they create more jobs, there is also a majority of job destruction/contraction.\n\nSMEs are important for economic and social reasons, given the sectors role in employment. Due to their sizes, SME are heavily influenced by their Chief Executive Officers, a.k.a. CEOs. The CEOs of SMEs often are the founders, owners, and manager of the SMEs. The duties of a CEO in SME is difficult just like the CEOs of big companies. A CEO needs to strategically allocate her/his time, energy, and assets to direct the SMEs. Typically, the CEO Is the strategist, champion and leader for developing the SME or the prime reason for the business failing.\n\nAt the employee level, Petrakis and Kostis (2012) explore the role of interpersonal trust and knowledge in the number of small and medium enterprises. They conclude that knowledge positively affects the number of SMEs, which in turn, positively affects interpersonal trust. Note that the empirical results indicate that interpersonal trust does not affect the number of SMEs. Therefore, although knowledge development can reinforce SMEs, trust becomes widespread in a society when the number of SMEs is greater.\n\nSMEs' top management teams' leadership styles have an essential effect on business success and the development of SMEs. Many SMEs do not have a board and rely on its top management team (TMT), the top managers of a firm, to make the strategic decisions.\n\nTo thrive in our changing and complex business world, the modern SME must formulate strategies on where it wants to be in its marketplace. Its leadership then needs to acquire, and use wisely, the right human, financial and other resources to get there.\n\nSMEs face a lot of uncertainty and need to be flexible.\n\nSMEs need to balance many things at the same time, and being ambidextrous at tasks is key.\n\nIn our changing and complex business world, the modern SME should have the ability to change themselves.\n\nWhile startups are known for their innovation, SMEs often are small and focused enough to bring out innovation as well.\n\nBribery is an often-quiet but prevalent strategies of SMEs in many parts of the world.\n\nIn the internet and mobile world, SMEs face unique motivation and barriers in their e-commerce and online strategy. SMEs find an \"enhanced company brand and corporate image\" to be the most important e-commerce advantage, whereas \"doubts about the security and privacy\" is the most important barrier for SMEs to have an e-commerce and online strategy.\n\nMultilateral organizations have been criticized for using one measure for all. The legal boundary of SMEs around the world vary, and below is a list of the upper limits of SMEs in some countries.\n\nMost of Egypt's businesses are small-sized, with 97 percent employing fewer than 10 workers, according to census data released by state-run statistics body CAPMAS.\n\nMedium-sized enterprises with 10 to 50 employees account for around 2.7 percent of total businesses. However, big businesses with over 50 employees account for 0.4 percent of all enterprises nationwide.\n\nThe data is part of Egypt's 2012/13 economic census on establishments ranging from small stalls to big enterprises. Economic activity outside the establishments – like street vendors and farmers, for example – were excluded from the census.\n\nThe results show that Egypt is greatly lacking in medium-sized businesses.\n\nSeventy percent of the country's 2.4 million businesses have only one or two employees. But less than 0.1 percent – only 784 businesses – employ between 45 and 49 people.\n\nIn Kenya, the term changed to MSME, which stands for \"micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises\".\n\nFor micro enterprises, the maximum number of employees is up to 10 employees. For small enterprises, it is from 10 to 50. For medium enterprises, it is from 50 to 100.\n\nThe Central Bank of Nigeria defines small and medium enterprises in Nigeria according to asset base and number of staff employed. The criteria are an asset base that is between N5 million to N500 million, and a staff strength that is between 11 and 100 employees.\n\nIn Somalia, the term is SME (for \"small, medium, and micro enterprises\"); elsewhere in Africa, MSME stands for \"micro, small, and medium enterprises\". An SME is defined as a small business that has more than 30 employees but less than 500 employees.\n\nIn the National Small Business Amendment Act 26 0f 2003, micro-businesses in the different sectors, varying from the manufacturing to the retail sectors, are defined as businesses with five or fewer employees and a turnover of up to R100,000 ZAR. Very small businesses employ between 6 and 20 employees, while small businesses employ between 21 and 50 employees. The upper limit for turnover in a small business varies from R1 million in the Agricultural sector to R13 million in the Catering, Accommodations and other Trade sector as well as in the Manufacturing sector, with a maximum of R32 million in the Wholesale Trade sector.\n\nMedium-sized businesses usually employ up to 200 people (100 in the Agricultural sector), and the maximum turnover varies from R5 million in the Agricultural sector to R51 million in the Manufacturing sector and R64 million in the Wholesale Trade, Commercial Agents and Allied Services sector.\n\nA comprehensive definition of an SME in South Africa is therefore any enterprise with one or more of the following characteristics: \n\nUnder section 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006, the Indian government defined the size of micro, small, and medium enterprises as:\nBusinesses that are declared as MSMEs and within specific sectors and criteria can then apply for \"priority sector\" lending to help with business expenses; banks have annual targets set by the Prime Minister's Task Force on MSMEs for year-on-year increases of lending to various categories of MSMEs.\n\nIn Indonesia, the government defines micro, small, and medium enterprises (Indonesian: \"Usaha Mikro Kecil dan Menengah\", UMKM) based on their assets and revenues according to Law No. 20/2008:\nAn annual revenue of Rp 50 billion is approximately equal to USD 3.7 million as of November 2017.\n\nIn Bangladesh, Bangladesh Bank defines Small and medium enterprises based on Fixed Asset, Employed Manpower and Yearly turn over and they are definitely not Public Limited Co. and requires these characteristics -\n\nWith effect from 1 April 2011, the definition of SMEs is businesses with annual sales turnover of not more than $100 million or employing no more than 200 staff.\n\nThe criteria for defining the size of a business differ from country to country, with many countries having programs of business rate reduction and financial subsidy for SMEs. According to the European Commission, the SME are the enterprises that meet the following definition of staff headcount and either the turnover or balance sheet total definitions:\n\nIn July 2011, the European Commission said it would open a consultation on the definition of SMEs in 2012. In Europe, there are three broad parameters which define SMEs:\nThe European definition of SME follows: \"The category of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) is made up of enterprises which employ fewer than 250 persons and which have an annual turnover not exceeding 50 million euro, and/or an annual balance sheet total not exceeding 43 million euro.\" In order to prepare for an evaluation and revision of some features of the small and medium-sized enterprises definition European Union established public consultation period from 6 February 2018 to 6 May 2018. Public consultation is available for all EU member country citizens and organizations. Especially, national and regional authorities, enterprises, business associations or organizations, venture capital providers, research and academic institutions, and individual citizens are expected as the main contributors.\n\nEU member states have had individual definitions of what constitutes an SME. For example, the definition in Germany had a limit of 255 employees, while in Belgium it could have been 100. The result is that while a Belgian business of 249 employees would be taxed at full rate in Belgium, it would nevertheless be eligible for SME subsidy under a European-labelled programme.\n\nSMEs are a crucial element in the supplier network of large enterprises which are already on their way towards Industry 4.0.\nAccording to German economist Hans-Heinrich Bass, \"empirical research on SME as well as policies to promote SME have a long tradition in [West] Germany, dating back into the 19th century. Until the mid-20th century most researchers considered SME as an impediment to further economic development and SME policies were thus designed in the framework of social policies. Only the Ordoliberalism school, the founding fathers of Germany's social market economy, discovered their strengths, considered SME as a solution to mid-20th century economic problems (mass unemployment, abuse of economic power), and laid the foundations for non-selective (functional) industrial policies to promote SMEs.\"\n\nThe SME sector in Poland generates almost 50% of the GDP, and out of that, for instance, in 2011, micro companies\ngenerated 29.6%, small companies 7.7%, and medium companies 10.4% (big companies 24.0%; other entities 16.5%,\nand revenues from customs duties and taxes generated 11.9%). In 2011, out of the total of 1,784,603 entities operating in Poland, merely 3,189 were classified as \"large\", so 1,781,414 were micro, small, or medium.\nCompanies of the SMEs sector employed 6.3 million people out of the total of 9.0 million of labour employed in the\nprivate sector. In Poland in 2011 was 36.2 SMEs per 1,000 of inhabitants.\n\nIn the UK a company is defined as being an SME if it meets two out of three criteria: it has a turnover of less than £25m, it has fewer than 250 employees, it has gross assets of less than £12.5m. Many small and medium-sized businesses form part of the UK's currently growing \"Mittelstand\", or \"Brittelstand\" as it is also often named. These are businesses in Britain that are not only small or medium but also have a much broader set of values and more elastic definition.\n\nThe Department for Business Innovation and Skills estimated that at the start of 2014, 99.3% of UK private sector businesses were SMEs, with their £1.6 trillion annual turnover accounting for 47% of private sector turnover.\n\nIn order to support SMEs, the UK government set a target in 2010 \"that 25% of government’s spend, either directly or in supply chains, goes to SMEs by 2015\"; it achieved this by 2013.\n\nIn Switzerland, the Federal Statistical Office defines small and medium-sized enterprises as companies with less than 250 employees. The categories are the following:\n\nIndustry Canada defines a small business as one with fewer than 100 paid employees and a medium-sized business as one with at least 100 and fewer than 500 employees. As of December 2012, there were 1,107,540 employer businesses in Canada, of which 1,087,803 were small. Small businesses make up 98.2 percent of employer businesses, medium-sized businesses make up 1.6 percent of employer businesses and large businesses make up 0.1 percent of employer businesses. In 2012, over 7.7 million employees, or 69.7 percent of the total private labour force, worked for small businesses and 2.2 million employees, or 20.2 percent of the labour force, worked for medium-sized businesses. In total, SMEs employed about 10 million individuals, or 89.9 percent of employees. Canadian high-growth firms are present in every economic sector and are not just concentrated in knowledge-based industries. In terms of employment, the highest concentrations of high-growth firms in Canada during the 2006–2009 period were in construction (4.9 percent of all firms); business, building and other support services (4.6 percent); and professional, scientific and technical services (4.5 percent). In 2011, only 10.4 percent of SMEs exported. Nonetheless, they were responsible for $150 billion, or about 41.0 percent, of Canada's total value of exports.\n\nCorporations in Canada are generally taxed at 29% federally. Canadian Controlled private corporations receive a 17% reduction in the tax rate on taxable income from active businesses up to $500,000. This small business deduction is reduced for corporations whose taxable capital exceeding $10M, and is completely eliminated for corporations whose taxable capital exceeds $15M. It has been estimated that almost $2 trillion of Canadian SMEs will be coming up for sale over the next decade which is twice as large as the assets of the top 1,000 Canadian pension plans and approximately the same size as Canadian annual GDP.\n\nThe small and medium-sized companies in Mexico are called PYMEs, which is a direct translation of SMEs. But there's another categorization in the country called MiPyMEs. The MiPyMEs are micro, small and medium-sized businesses, with an emphasis on micro which are one man companies or a type of freelance.\n\nIn the United States, the Small Business Administration sets small business criteria based on industry, ownership structure, revenue and number of employees (which in some circumstances may be as high as 1500, although the cap is typically 500).\nBoth the US and the EU generally use the same threshold of fewer than 10 employees for small offices (SOHO).\n\nAlso in the United States, small and medium-sized manufacturers are referred to as SMMs, which the US Department of Energy classifies as having gross annual sales below $100 million, fewer than 500 employees at the plant site, and annual energy bills more than $100,000 but less than $2.5 million.\n\nIn Australia, a SME has 200 or fewer employees. Microbusinesses have 1–4 employees, small businesses 5–19, medium businesses 20–199, and large businesses 200+. Australian SMEs make up 97% of all Australian businesses, produced one third of total GDP, and employ 4.7 million people. SMEs represent 90 per cent of all goods exporters and over 60% of services exporters.\n\nIn New Zealand, 99% of businesses employ 50 or less staff, and the official definition of a small business is one with 19 or fewer employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20273569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20273569", "title": "Stakeholder management", "text": "Stakeholder management\n\nStakeholder management is a critical component to the successful delivery of any project, programme or activity. A stakeholder is any individual, group or organization that can affect, be affected by, or perceive itself to be affected by a programme. Stakeholder management creates positive relationships with stakeholders through the appropriate management of their expectations and agreed objectives. Stakeholder management is a process and control that must be planned and guided by underlying principles. Stakeholder management within businesses, organizations, or projects prepares a strategy using information (or intelligence) gathered during the following common processes.\n\nThe first step in your stakeholder analysis is to brainstorm who your stakeholders are. As part of this, think of all the people who are affected by your work, who have influence or power over it, or have an interest in its successful or unsuccessful conclusion. Remember that although stakeholders may be both organizations and people, ultimately you must communicate with people. Make sure that you identify the correct individual stakeholders within a stakeholder organization. \n\nSo in a nutshell, the stakeholder management comprises four steps:\n\n\nYou may now have a long list of people and organizations that are affected by your work. Some of these may have the power either to block or advance. Some may be interested in what you are doing, others may not care. Map out your stakeholders on a Power/Interest Grid, and classify them by their power over your work and by their interest in your work. There are other tools available to map out your stakeholders and how best to influence them.\n\nFor example, your boss is likely to have high power and influence over your projects and high interest. Your family may have high interest, but are unlikely to have power over it. Someone's position on the grid shows you the actions you have to take with them:\n\nYou now need to know more about your key stakeholders. You need to know how they are likely to feel about and react to your project. You also need to know how best to engage them in your project and how best to communicate with them. Key questions that can help you understand your stakeholders are:\n\n\nSource: \n\nIt is well acknowledged that any given organization will have multiple stakeholders including, but not limited to, customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and so forth. Within the field of marketing, it is believed that customers are one of the most important stakeholders for managing its long-term value, with a firm's major objective being the management of customer satisfaction.\n\nWith a clear understanding of your Stakeholders, engaging and communicating can be achieved through a variety of channels based upon who the stakeholder is.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10916051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10916051", "title": "Subordination (finance)", "text": "Subordination (finance)\n\nSubordination in banking and finance refers to the order of priorities in claims for ownership or interest in various assets.\n\nSubordination is the process by which a creditor is placed in a lower priority for the collection of its debt from its debtor's assets than the priority the creditor previously had, In common parlance, the debt is said to be subordinated but in reality, it is the right of the creditor to collect the debt that has been reduced in priority. The priority of right to collect the debt is important when a debtor owes more than one creditor but has assets of insufficient value to pay them all in full at the time of a default. Except in bankruptcy proceedings, the creditor with the first priority for collection will generally have the first claim on the debtor's assets for its debt and the creditors whose rights are subordinate will thus have fewer assets to satisfy their claims. Subordination can take place by operation of law or by agreement among the creditors.\n\nSubordination is also an issue in the priority of security interests in the ownership of property. For example, in real estate, mortgages and other liens on the title to secure the payment or repayment of money usually take their priority from the time they attach to the title. The purpose of this ordering of priority is to determine, in a foreclosure resulting from a default, who gets paid first with the sale proceeds from the foreclosure proceeding. Earlier mortgages or other liens are often subordinated by their holders to later ones in order to accomplish agreed-upon ends. An example is for the holder of a mortgage on undeveloped land to subordinate that mortgage to a later construction loan mortgage. The motivation is either the belief that improvement of the land will benefit the first lender or that the first mortgage requires that it be subordinated to a future construction loan.\n\nThe \"subordination percentage\" of a security is the percentage of the total capital which is subordinate to the security in question. Thus, the security will not suffer any losses until after that percentage of capital has been lost.\n\nIn the automotive financing industry, many dealerships are allowed to designate personal loans which are payable to the ownership as subordinable debt. The finance institution and dealership may come to an agreement which allows this debt to stay within the confines of the financial statement and concurrently improve the dealership financial position from a liquidity perspective.\n\nBankruptcy courts in the United States have the power and authority to subordinate prior claims on the assets of a bankrupt debtor to the claims of junior claimants based on principles of equity. This is a remedy called \"equitable subordination.\" The basis for subordination is usually the inequitable conduct of the prior claimant with respect to junior claimants. Equitable subordination can be used to subordinate both secured and unsecured claims.\n\n"}
{"id": "19818206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818206", "title": "Sustainopreneurship", "text": "Sustainopreneurship\n\nSustainopreneurship (entrepreneurship and innovation for sustainability) is a concept that has emerged from the earlier concepts social entrepreneurship and ecopreneurship, via sustainability entrepreneurship. The concept means to use creative business organizing to solve problems related to sustainability to create social and environmental sustainability as a strategic objective and purpose, at the same time respecting the boundaries set in order to maintain the life support systems in the process. In other words, it is a \"business with a cause\" – where the world problems are turned into business opportunities by deployment of sustainability innovations. \n\nThe definition first introduced in a conference article in 2006:\n\n\nThe business world has been nominated as a premier force for creating a sustainable world, especially when acting as a source of innovation and creativity – e. g. as Robinson (2004:378) puts it:\n\nSustainopreneurship is a candidate to be the accentuating factor to give even more leverage to forces emerging from world of business activities to contribute to sustainability. The concept of sustainopreneurship was first introduced as a term in 2000 where it was predominantly related to the proactive change management approaches associated with process adjustment with increased respect to the environment. The phenomenon developed with publications in 2003, and further evolved and was tentatively defined in 2006 by Anders Abrahamsson. This tentative definition was empirically tested in his Master thesis, where the enactive research process confirmed that the definition stood the test contrasting it towards the auto-ethnographical empirical material. A paper to identify future research challenges was made beyond this in 2007, and developed further with a book chapter published in September 2008.\n\nIn general, the entrepreneurial discourse has opened up to move beyond a strictly economic phenomenon, rather than being perceived primarily as a social process at large. Preceding the conceptual formation were two traces of social entrepreneurship and eco-preneurship, dealing primarily with the social and ecological dimensions of sustainability. Primary associations with social entrepreneurship have also been establishing not-for-profit venturing and charities to innovatively address and solve social problems, whereas ecopreneurship has been primarily focused on solving environmental problems. See Principles of ecopreneurship.\n\nBoth these traces of conceptual development are taken beyond, merge and integrate into the suggested conceptual construct at hand, where distinctions are made from both of these concepts – sustainopreneurial processes taking place institutionally through for-profit organizing, but not with profit as its main driving force. Sustainopreneurial venturing is done in a holistic manner that meets both ecological and social challenges simultaneously with regard to both purpose and process. \n\nThe definition of sustainopreneurship needs to be highlighted by three distinguishing dimensions with all three being simultaneously present in the applied (inter)action it reflects. The first is oriented towards \"why\" – its purpose and motive. The second and third are reflecting two \"how\"-related dimensions – its process. \n\n1. Sustainopreneurship consciously sets out to find and/or create innovations to solve sustainability-related problems\n\n2. Sustainopreneurship means to get solutions to the market through creative organizing \n\n3. Sustainopreneurship in process adds sustainability value with respect for life support systems \n\nWith these dimensions clarified and distinctions made a common conceptual vagueness or lack of clarity needs to be addressed, where a strong need to distinguish clearly between sustainable, vs. \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship is identified. From this point of view, a very important distinction with the concept formed is claimed – \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship as in the concept \"sustainopreneurship; \"the use of entrepreneurial activity in a \"determined action orientation towards solving a sustainability-related problem\" with (creative) business organizing as a \"means\" to solve the problem(s) – business with a cause: to turn business activity from a part of the problem to a part of the solution.\" Sustainable\" entrepreneurship is just a generic entrepreneurial process that takes into consideration the boundaries set by sustainability, and does not address where to and why, the destination, the purpose or the aim of the venture. The strategic intent and the business idea in itself are not related to sustainability \"per se,\" sustainability just being an \"attachment\" to the entrepreneurial process. The second and third dimensions are represented, but not the first. \"Sustainability\" entrepreneurship, in contrast, takes as its root of existence and strategic aim to solve a sustainability-related problem. This means that all three dimensions are simultaneously present: to take a sustainability innovation to the market through creative organizing with respect for life-supporting systems in the process.\n\nGiven its recent date, there is a need for future research, as mentioned above. Main findings here are that conceptually, a deeper analysis is needed to be conducted with a nuanced and detailed taxonomy and framework created of sustainability innovations, the core of sustainopreneurship, primarily by cataloging and categorizing case stories. It is also needed to make a more detailed description to relate sustainopreneurship to other concepts in the wider, general idea-sphere of the \"business case of sustainability\", in the contemporary plethora of \"buzz-words\", approaches, methods and acronyms that already exists – and in this context also to motivate why this concept adds value. \n\nIt has been recommended, though, to keep the research applied, to identify obstacles and institutional barriers, and how to overcome them; i. e. facilitating factors for sustainopreneurship, researching prospective tools, enablers and approaches. Appropriate areas and domains for sustainopreneurship applied are recommended to be digested. Research methods recommended are Enactive Research and Open Space Technology, since they add instant value among stakeholders, and in themselves naturally builds arenas where sustainopreneurship evolves and proliferates. For progress, beyond these \"how\"-related pointers, the key is to single out \"the big questions\", getting answers through collaborative, collective dialogue and conversation, with an explicit interaction and results orientation. Issues and topics have been formulated and outlined, where it is of striking importance with an intention to attract authentic forces potentially hearing this call of exploring the phenomenon further, with the purpose to collapse the degrees of separation in between the stakeholders of the sustainopreneurial concept – in idea, reflective practice and applied interaction to generate collective and collaborative wisdom for a deeper understanding of the concept. An association with this purpose is in its interim stages, ÆREAS(i).\n\n"}
{"id": "1533342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533342", "title": "TED (conference)", "text": "TED (conference)\n\nTED Conferences LLC (Technology, Entertainment, Design) is a media organization that posts talks online for free distribution under the slogan \"ideas worth spreading.\" TED was conceived by Richard Saul Wurman in February 1984 as a conference which has been held annually since 1990. TED's early emphasis was on technology and design, consistent with its Silicon Valley origins, but it has since broadened its repertoire to include talks on many scientific, cultural, and academic topics. It is owned by Chris Anderson, a British American businessman, through the Sapling foundation.\n\nThe main TED conference is held annually in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada at the Vancouver Convention Centre. Prior to 2014, the conference was held in Long Beach, California, United States. TED events are also held throughout North America and in Europe and Asia, offering live streaming of the talks. They address a wide range of topics within the research and practice of science and culture, often through storytelling. The speakers are given a maximum of 18 minutes to present their ideas in the most innovative and engaging ways they can. Past speakers include Bill Clinton, Sean M. Carroll, Elon Musk, Ray Dalio, Cédric Villani, Stephen Hawking, Jane Goodall, Al Gore, Temple Grandin, Gordon Brown, David Cameron, Billy Graham, Richard Dawkins, Bill Gates, Dolph Lundgren, Bono, Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and many Nobel Prize winners. TED's current curator is the British former computer journalist and magazine publisher Chris Anderson.\nSince June 2006, TED Talks have been offered for free viewing online, under an Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives Creative Commons license, through TED.com. , over 2,600 TED Talks are freely available on the website. In June 2011, TED Talks' combined viewing figure stood at more than 500 million, and by November 2012, TED Talks had been watched over one billion times worldwide. TED Talks given by academics tend to be watched more online while art and design videos tend to be watched less than average.\n\nTED was conceived in 1984 by architect and graphic designer Richard Saul Wurman, who observed a convergence of the fields of technology, entertainment, and design (that is, \"TED\"). The first conference, organized by Harry Marks and Wurman in the same year, featured demos of the compact disc, co-developed by Philips and Sony and one of the first demonstrations of the Apple Macintosh computer. Presentations were given by famous mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot and influential members of the digerati community, like Nicholas Negroponte and Stewart Brand. The event was financially unsuccessful; it took six years before the second conference was organized.\n\nFrom 1990 onward, a growing community of \"TEDsters\" gathered annually at the event in California State University Monterey Bay, until 2009, when it was relocated to Long Beach, California due to a substantial increase in attendees. Initially, the speakers had been drawn from the fields of expertise behind the acronym TED, but during the nineties, the roster of presenters broadened to include scientists, philosophers, musicians, religious leaders, philanthropists, and many others.\n\nIn 2000, Wurman, looking for a successor at age 65, met with new-media entrepreneur and TED enthusiast Chris Anderson to discuss future happenings. Anderson's UK media company Future bought TED. In November 2001, Anderson's non-profit The Sapling Foundation (motto: \"fostering the spread of great ideas.\") acquired TED from Future for £6m. In February 2002, Anderson gave a TED Talk in which he explained his vision of the conference and his future role of curator. Wurman left after the 2002 conference.\n\nIn 2006, attendance cost was $4,400 per person and was by invitation only. The membership model was shifted in January 2007 to an annual membership fee of $6,000, which includes attendance of the conference, club mailings, networking tools, and conference DVDs. The 2018 conference was $10,000 per attendee.\n\nIn 2014, the conference was relocated to Vancouver.\n\nTED is currently funded by a combination of various revenue streams, including conference attendance fees, corporate sponsorships, foundation support, licensing fees, and book sales. Corporate sponsorships are diverse, provided by companies such as Google, GE, AOL, Goldman Sachs, and The Coca-Cola Company, among others. Sponsors do not participate in the creative direction of the event, nor are they allowed to present on the main stage, in the interests of independence.\n\nThe TED staff consists of about 180 people headquartered in New York City and Vancouver.\n\nThe TED Prize was introduced in 2005. Until 2010, it annually granted three individuals $100,000 and a \"wish to change the world\". Each winner unveils their wish at the main annual conference. Since 2010, in a changed selection process, a single winner is chosen to ensure that TED can maximize its efforts in achieving the winner's wish. In 2012, the prize was not awarded to an individual, but to a concept connected to the current global phenomenon of increasing urbanization. In 2013, the prize amount was increased to $1 million. TED Prize winners in previous years:\nTED Conference commissioned New York artist Tom Shannon to create a prize sculpture to be given to all TED Prize winners.\nThe sculpture consists of an diameter aluminum sphere magnetically levitated above a walnut disc.\n\nIn 2005, Chris Anderson hired June Cohen as Director of TED Media. In June 2006, after Cohen's idea of a TV show based on TED lectures was rejected by several networks, a selection of talks that had received the highest audience ratings was posted on the websites of TED, YouTube, and iTunes, under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0. Initially, only a handful of talks were posted, to test if there was an audience for them. In January of the next year, the number of TED Talks on the site had grown to 44, and they had been viewed more than three million times. On the basis of that success, the organization pumped hundreds of thousands of dollars into its video production operations and into the development of a website to showcase about 100 of the talks.\n\nIn April 2007, the new TED.com was launched, developed by design firm Method. In subsequent years, the website has won many prizes, among which seven Webby Awards, iTunes' \"Best Podcast of the Year\" (2006-2010), the Communication Arts Interactive Award for \"Information Design\" in 2007, the OMMA Award for \"video sharing\" in 2008, the Web Visionary Award for \"technical achievement\" in 2008, The One Show Interactive Bronze Award in 2008, the AIGA Annual Design Competition (2009), and a Peabody Award in 2012.\n\nAs of January 2018, over 2600 TED talks had been posted. Every week 5-7 new talks are published. In January 2009, the then number of videos had been viewed 50 million times. In June 2011, the number of views totaled 500 million, and on November 13, 2012, TED reached its billionth video view. Chris Anderson in an interview in March 2012:\nIt used to be 800 people getting together once a year; now it's about a million people a day watching TED Talks online. When we first put up a few of the talks as an experiment, we got such impassioned responses that we decided to flip the organization on its head and think of ourselves not so much as a conference but as \"ideas worth spreading,\" building a big website around it. The conference is still the engine, but the website is the amplifier that takes the ideas to the world.\n\nIn March 2012, Netflix announced a deal to stream an initial series of 16 two-hour shows, consisting of TED Talks covering similar subjects, from multiple speakers. The content was made available to subscribers in the US, Canada, Latin America, the UK, and Ireland. Hosted by Jami Floyd, \"TED Talks NYC\" debuted on NYC Life on March 21, 2012.\n\nIn 2005, under Anderson's supervision, a more internationally oriented sister conference was added, under the name TEDGlobal. It was held, in chronological order: in Oxford, UK (2005), in Arusha, Tanzania (2007, titled TEDAfrica), in Oxford again (2009 and 2010), and in Edinburgh, UK (2011, 2012, and 2013). In 2014, it was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Additionally, there was TED India, in Mysore (2009) and TEDGlobal London in London (2015). TEDGlobal 2017 was held again in Arusha, Tanzania and it was curated and hosted by Emeka Okafor.\n\nTED's European director (and curator of TEDGlobal) is Swiss-born Bruno Giussani.\n\nTED Translators started as TED Open Translation Project in May 2009 and aims to \"[reach] out to the 4.5 billion people on the planet who don't speak English\", according to TED Curator Chris Anderson. The OTP utilizes crowd-based subtitling platforms to translate the text of TED and TED-Ed videos, as well as to caption and translate videos created in the TEDx program (with its technology partner dotSUB until May 2012, and then with open source translation tool Amara). At the time of the launch, 300 translations had been done by 200 volunteer transcribers in 40 languages. In May 2015, over 70,000 sets of subtitles in 107 languages had been completed by (an all-time total of) 38,173 volunteer translators.\n\nThe project contributed to a significant increase in international visitors to TED's website, with traffic from outside the US growing 350 percent, 600 percent growth in Asia, and more than 1000 percent in South America.\n\nMembers have several tools dedicated to knowledge management, such as the OTP Wiki OTPedia, Facebook groups, or video tutorials.\n\nTEDx are independent TED-like events, which can be organized by anyone who obtains a free license from TED, agreeing to follow certain principles. TEDx events are non-profit but may use an admission fee or commercial sponsorship to cover costs. Similarly, speakers are not paid. They must also relinquish the copyrights to their materials, which TED may edit and distribute under a Creative Commons license.\n\nA TEDx event is organized by volunteers from the local community, and just like TED events, it lacks any commercial, religious, or political agenda. Its goal is to spark conversation, connection, and community.\n\nAs of January 2014, the TEDxTalks library contained some 30,000 films and presentations from over 130 countries. As of October 2017, the TEDx archive surpassed 100,000 talks. In March 2013, eight TEDx events were organised every day; raised up from five in June 2012, the previous year, in 133 countries. TEDx presentations also include live performances, which are catalogued in the TEDx Music Project. In 2011, TED began a program called \"TEDx in a Box\" that allows people in developing countries to hold TEDx events. TEDx also expanded to include TEDxYouth events, TEDx corporate events, and TEDxWomen. TEDxYouth events are independent programs set up for students roughly between 7–12 grades. These events usually have people closer to the age of the students and sometimes show TED Talks. According to TEDxSanta Cruz, \"as of 2015, over 1,500 [TEDx events] have been scheduled all over the world\". TEDx events evolved over a period of time and events like TEDxBeaconStreet created TEDx Adventures for participants where participants sign up for free, hands-on experiences in their local communities, led by an expert.\n\nSince 2015, TEDxHyderabad is being conducted in India every year, with its 3rd edition conducted in September 2017. As of 2017, TED Talks airs as a television programme in Jamaica on CVM Television.\n\nTED Fellows were introduced in 2007, during the first TEDAfrica conference in Arusha, Tanzania, where 100 young people were selected from across the continent. Two years later, during TEDIndia, 99 Fellows were recruited, mainly from South Asia. In 2009, the Fellows program was initiated in its present form. For every TED or TEDGlobal conference, 20 Fellows are selected; a total of 40 new Fellows a year. Each year, 20 past Fellows are chosen to participate in the two-year Senior Fellows program (in which they will attend four more conferences).\n\nAcceptance as a Fellow is not based on academic credentials, but mainly on past and current actions, and plans for the future. Besides attending a conference free of charge, each Fellow takes part in a special program with mentoring by experts in the field of spreading ideas, and he or she can give a short talk on the \"TED Fellows\" stage. Some of these talks are subsequently published on TED.com. Senior Fellows have additional benefits and responsibilities.\n\nTED-Ed is a category of TED talks which are short animated lessons aimed at children. It creates explanatory animation videos on various concepts. TED-Ed lessons are created in collaboration with educators and animators. Current advisers for Ted-Ed lessons include Aaron Sams, Jackie Bezos, John Hunter, Jonathan Bergmann, Sir Ken Robinson, Melinda French Gates, and Salman Khan.\n\nTEDMED is an annual conference concerned with health and medicine. It is an independent event operating under license from the nonprofit TED conference.\n\nTEDMED was founded in 1998 by TED's founder Ricky Wurman. After years of inactivity, in 2008 Wurman sold TEDMED to entrepreneur Marc Hodosh, who recreated and relaunched it. The first event under Hodosh's ownership was held in San Diego in October 2009. In January 2010, TED.com began including videos of TEDMED talks on the TED website.\n\nThe second Hodosh-owned edition of TEDMED took place in October 2010, also in San Diego. It sold out for a second year and attracted notable healthcare leaders and Hollywood celebrities.\n\nIn 2011, Jay Walker and a group of executives and investors purchased TEDMED from Hodosh for $16 million with future additional payments of as much as $9 million. The conference was then moved to Washington, DC.\n\nTEDWomen is a three-day conference. Established in 2010, TEDWomen features speakers focused on women-oriented themes, including gender issues and reproductive health. There are over 130 TEDWomen Talks available to watch on the TED website. Past speakers include former president Jimmy Carter, Hillary Clinton, Sheryl Sandberg, Madeleine Albright, Nancy Pelosi and Halla Tómasdóttir, among others.\n\nTEDYouth talks are aimed at middle school and high school children and feature information from youth innovators.\n\n\nFrank Swain, a deaf journalist, refused to participate in a TEDx event without getting paid. He said that it is unacceptable that TED, which is a non-profit organization, charges attendees $6,000 but cannot afford to pay anything to their speakers.\n\nSpeakers at the independently-organized TEDx talks may not be paid; speakers at the official, yearly, TED Conference are compensated for their talks.\n\nSarah Lacy of \"BusinessWeek\" and \"TechCrunch\" wrote in 2010 that TED attendees complained of elitism from a \"hierarchy of parties throughout the LA-area with strict lists and security\" after the sessions. She gave TED credit for making talks free online or live streamed.\n\nDisagreements have also occurred between TED speakers and organizers. In her 2010 TED Talk, comedian Sarah Silverman referred to adopting a \"retarded\" child. TED organizer Chris Anderson objected via his Twitter account, leading to a Twitter skirmish between them.\n\nAlso in 2010, noted statistician Nassim Taleb called TED a \"monstrosity that turns scientists and thinkers into low-level entertainers, like circus performers.\" He claimed TED curators did not initially post his talk \"warning about the financial crisis\" on their site on purely cosmetic grounds.\n\nNick Hanauer spoke at TED University, challenging the popular belief that top income earners in America are the engines of job creation. TED was accused of censoring the talk by not posting it on the website. The \"National Journal\" reported Chris Anderson had reacted by saying the talk probably ranked as one of the most politically controversial talks they had ever run, and they needed to be careful about when they posted it. Anderson officially responded, indicating that TED only posts one talk every day, selected from many. \"Forbes\" staff writer Bruce Upbin described Hanauer's talk as \"shoddy and dumb\" while \"New York\" magazine condemned the conference's move.\n\nFollowing a TEDx talk by Rupert Sheldrake, TED issued a statement saying their scientific advisors believed that \"there is little evidence for some of Sheldrake's more radical claims\" made in the talk and recommended that it \"should not be distributed without being framed with caution\". The video of the talk was moved from the TEDx YouTube channel to the TED blog accompanied by the framing language called for by the advisors. The move and framing prompted accusations of censorship, to which TED responded by saying the accusations were \"simply not true\" and that Sheldrake's talk was \"up on our website\".\n\nTED has also been accused of censoring a presentation by Graham Hancock in which he discussed the effects of legal versus illegal drugs, by removing it from YouTube.\n\nAccording to Professor Benjamin Bratton at University of California, San Diego, TED Talks' efforts at fostering progress in socio-economics, science, philosophy, and technology have been ineffective. Chris Anderson responded that some critics have a misconception of TED's goals, and failed to recognise that TED aimed to instill excitement in the audience in the same way the speaker felt it. He stated that TED only wishes to bring news of the significance of certain topics to a large audience.\n\n"}
{"id": "39339569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39339569", "title": "Tapered integration", "text": "Tapered integration\n\nTapered integration is a term from organization theory that refers to a mix of vertical integration and market exchange. Upstream, a producer might manufacture some of the input itself and buy the remaining portion from independent firms. Downstream, the manufacturer might sell a portion of its output through an in-house sales force and use independent sales forces to sell the remainder.\n\nIt is not documented when the term \"tapered integration\" was first used, though it can be found in law journals such as the Yale Law Journal as early as the 1950s, the first known use in academia being a case study by William King Norris.\n\nExamples for tapered integration are (1) Tim Hortons owning some of its retail outlets but also using franchising, (2) Coca-Cola and Pepsi both having integrated bottling subsidiaries while also relying on independent bottlers for production and distribution in some markets, or (3) BMW which uses both in-house market research from its Corporate Center Development and external market research from independent, specialized firms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47900392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47900392", "title": "The Marketing Institute of Ireland", "text": "The Marketing Institute of Ireland\n\nThe Marketing Institute of Ireland (MII) is the professional body for Ireland's marketing people, in operation since 1962. The Marketing Institute provides training courses and organises the All Ireland Marketing Awards (AIM Awards) and digital marketing event, DMX Dublin.\n\nThe All Ireland Marketing Awards (AIM Awards), was established by The Marketing Institute in 2007. This event recognises the success of Irish marketing - with 19 categories ranging from marketing campaigns to best teams.\n\nDMX Dublin is a digital marketing event, with over 30 international and local speakers in 4 presentation streams, and 800 marketing professional attendees.\n\nThe Marketing Institute offers one and two-day workshops, as well as intensive training programmes - MSc in Digital Marketing and Analytics and The Postgraduate Diploma in Management and Marketing.\n\nBoth programmes are operated by the Marketing Institute of Ireland in partnership with Dublin Institute of Technology (DIT). The MSc in Digital Marketing and Analytics is an executive master's degree. The Postgraduate Diploma in Management and Marketing is a Level 9 one-year part-time conversion course for graduates from non-business disciplines.\n"}
{"id": "20715195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20715195", "title": "World Business Forum", "text": "World Business Forum\n\nThe World Business Forum is an annual global business summit held in New York City. A 2008 Burson-Marsteller survey ranked the forum among the world's top five most influential venues for C-Suite executives. The event is organized by WOBI, an executive education and management content firm.\n\nThe yearly summit brings together over 5,000 attendees, consisting mostly of senior executives, from over 60 countries to hear the debate and discussions of top political and business leaders as well as renowned intellectuals about the current issues and challenges of the world business environment and global economy.\n\nThe World Business Forum in New York City launched in 2004. Past speakers in the World Business Forum included political figures such as Bill Clinton, Kofi Annan, Rudy Giuliani, Tony Blair and Colin Powell, CEOs such as Jack Welch, Richard Branson, Herb Kelleher and John Chambers, financial experts Alan Greenspan and Jeremy Siegel as well as management experts Tom Peters, Peter Drucker and Michael Porter among others.\n\nSpeakers included:\n\n\n\n75% of attendees to the World Business Forum are at director level or above, and 30% are C-Suite executives.\n\nThe event is organized by WOBI, an executive education and management content firm which has been holding business conferences globally for over 20 years under the names World Business Forum and ExpoManagement. In addition to the World Business Forum in New York, WOBI organizes business forums around the world as well as other forums including the WOBI On Innovation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9406780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9406780", "title": "World Programming System", "text": "World Programming System\n\nThe World Programming System, also known as WPS Analytics or WPS, is a software product developed by a company called World Programming. WPS allows users to create, edit and run programs written in the language of SAS.\n\nThe program was the subject of a lawsuit by SAS Institute. The EU Court of Justice ruled in favor of World Programming, stating that the copyright protection does not extend to the software functionality, the programming language used and the format of the data files used by the program. It stated that there is no copyright infringement when a company which does not have access to the source code of a program studies, observes and tests that program to create another program with the same functionality.\n\nWPS can use programs written in the language of SAS without the need for translating them into any other language. In this regard WPS is compatible with the SAS system. WPS is a language interpreter able to process the language of SAS and produce similar results.\n\nWPS is available to run on Mainframe z/OS, Windows, macOS, Linux, Linux for Arm8 64-bit (AArch64), PowerLinux, POWER/System p/pSeries (LE), Solaris, AIX and Linux on Mainframe System z.\n\nOn all supported platforms, programs written in the language of SAS can be executed from a WPS command line interface, often referred to as running in batch mode.\n\nWPS can also be used from a graphical user interface known as the WPS Workbench for managing, editing and running programs written in the language of SAS. The WPS Workbench user interface is based on Eclipse.\n\nWPS version 4 (released in March 2018) introduced a drag-and-drop workflow canvas providing interactive blocks for data retrieval, blending and preparation, data discovery and profiling, predictive modelling powered by machine learning algorithms, model performance validation and scorecards.\n\nWPS version 3 (released in February 2012) provides a new client/server architecture that allows the WPS Workbench GUI to execute SAS programs on remote server installations of WPS in a network or cloud. The resulting output, data sets, logs, etc., can then all be viewed and manipulated from inside the Workbench as if the workloads had been executed locally. SAS programs do not require any special language statements to use this feature.\n\nIn 2010 World Programming defended its use of the language of SAS in the High Court of England and Wales in \"SAS Institute Inc. v World Programming Ltd\".\n\n\nGartner recognized World Programming in their Cool Vendors in Data Science, 2014 Report.\n\n"}
{"id": "23389971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23389971", "title": "Xavier University MBA Program", "text": "Xavier University MBA Program\n\nXavier University's MBA program is the master's degree in business administration program offered by Xavier University in Cincinnati. The Xavier MBA has received regional praise as the \"best reputation in the Midwest for an MBA\", according to \"The Princeton Review.\" The university's part-time MBA program is nationally ranked 14th in the 2010 \"U.S. News & World Report.\"\n\nXavier University's MBA degree is offered in several formats to meet the needs of its students. An evening program is available and offers working professional students weekday evening courses and flexibility on the time frame to complete the degree requirements. Also aimed for working professional students, a weekend option allows students who travel during the week to complete the degree requirements during weekends. An Executive MBA is designed for experienced business leaders who have been tapped by their respective organizations for executive roles. Xavier University also conducts MBA courses in off-campus locations in West Chester, Ohio and Deerfield Township, Ohio. \n\nXavier sponsors the Momentum Program for students who completed their undergraduate degree and wish to continue their education through a full-time MBA program. \n\n"}
