{"id": "47308337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47308337", "title": "1972 Republic of the Congo coup d'état attempt", "text": "1972 Republic of the Congo coup d'état attempt\n\nOn February 22, 1972 a faction loyal to Ange Diawara attempted a coup against President Marien Ngouabi. Joachim Yhombi-Opango was instrumental in ending the coup. After more than a year of evading capture Diawara was ambushed and killed by forces loyal to Ngouabi. \n"}
{"id": "30885117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30885117", "title": "2010 in politics", "text": "2010 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "624968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=624968", "title": "Atlanticism", "text": "Atlanticism\n\nAtlanticism, also known as Transatlanticism, is the belief in or support for a close relationship between the United States, Canada and Europe regarding political, economic and defence issues, with the belief that it would maintain security and prosperity of the participating countries and protect perceived values that unite them. The term derives from the Atlantic Ocean that separates the two continents.\n\nThe term can be used in a more limited way to imply support for North Atlantic military alliances, or in a more expansive way implying broader cooperation, perceived deeply shared values, a merging of diplomatic cultures, a sense of community and some degree of integration between North America and Europe. In practice, the philosophy of Atlanticism encourages active North American, particularly US, engagement in Europe and close cooperation between the two sides of the ocean.\n\nAtlanticism manifested itself most strongly during the Second World War and in its aftermath through the establishment of various euro-Atlantic institutions, most importantly NATO and the Marshall Plan.\n\nAtlanticism varies in strength from region to region and country to country based on a variety of historical and cultural factors. Atlanticism is often considered to be particularly strong in eastern and central Europe, and the United Kingdom (linked to the Special Relationship). Politically, it has tended to be associated most heavily and enthusiastically, but certainly not exclusively, with classical liberals, or the political right in Europe. Atlanticism often implies an affinity for American political or social culture as well as the historical bonds between the two continents.\n\nThere is some tension between Atlanticism and continentalism on both sides of the Atlantic, with some people emphasising increased regional cooperation or integration over trans-Atlantic cooperation. However, the relationship between Atlanticism and North American or European integration is complex and they are not seen in direct opposition to one another by many commentators. Internationalism is the foreign policy belief combining both Atlanticism and continentalism. The relative decrease of European power in the world, the fall of the Soviet Union, as well as the spread of Atlanticist norms outside of the North Atlantic region, have decreased the strength of Atlanticist thought since the end of the Cold War. Other international relationships have been increasingly emphasised, although the trans-Atlantic relationship is still arguably the most important in the world.\n\nPrior to the World Wars, western European countries were generally preoccupied with creating colonial empires in Africa and Asia and not relations with North America. Likewise, the United States was busy with interventions in Latin America, but had little interest in European affairs, and Canada had yet to exercise full foreign policy independence as a part of the British Empire.\n\nThe experience of having American and Canadian troops fighting with British, French, and other Europeans in Europe during the wars fundamentally changed this situation. Though the US (and to some extent Canada) adopted a more isolationist position between the wars, by the time of the Normandy landings the Allies were well integrated on all policies. The Atlantic Charter of 1941 declared by US President Roosevelt and British Prime Minister Churchill established the goals of the Allies for the post-war world, and was later adopted by all the Western allies. Following the Second World War, the Western European countries were anxious to convince the US to remain engaged in European affairs to deter any possible aggression by the Soviet Union. This led to the 1949 \"North Atlantic Treaty\" which established the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the main institutional consequence of Atlanticism, which binds all members to defend the others, and led to the long-term garrisoning of American and Canadian troops in Western Europe.\nAfter the end of the cold war, the relationship between the United States and Europe changed fundamentally, and made both sides less interested in the other. Without the threat of the Soviet Union dominating Europe, the continent became much less of a military priority for the US, and likewise, Europe no longer felt as much need for military protection from the US. As a result, the relationship became much less important strategically speaking.\n\nAtlanticism has undergone significant changes in the 21st century in light of terrorism and the Iraq War, the net effect being a renewed questioning of the idea itself and a new insight that the security of the respective countries may require alliance action outside the North Atlantic territory. After the September 11, 2001, attacks, NATO for the first time invoked Article 5, which states that any attack on a member state will be considered an attack against the entire group of members. Planes of NATO's multi-national AWACS unit patrolled the U.S. skies and European countries deployed personnel and equipment. However, the Iraq War caused fissures within NATO and the sharp difference of opinion between the US-led backers of the invasion and opponents strained the alliance. Some commentators, such as Robert Kagan questioned whether Europe and the United States had diverged to such a degree that their alliance was no longer relevant.\n\nAtlanticism is a belief in the necessity of cooperation between North America and Europe. The term can imply a belief that the bilateral relationship between Europe and the United States is important above all others, including intra-European cooperation, especially when it comes to security issues. The term can also be used \"as a shorthand for the transatlantic security architecture.\"\n\nSupranational integration of the North Atlantic area had emerged as a focus of thinking among intellectuals on both sides of the Atlantic already in the late 19th century. Although it was not known as Atlanticism at the time (the term was coined in 1950), they developed an approach coupling soft and hard power which would to some extent integrate the two sides of the Atlantic. The idea of an attractive \"nucleus\" union was the greatest soft power element; the empirical fact of the hegemonic global strength such a union would hold was the hard power element. This approach was eventually implemented to a certain degree in the form of NATO, the G7 grouping and other Atlanticist institutions. In the long debate between Atlanticism and its critics in the 20th century, the main argument was whether deep and formal Atlantic integration would serve to attract those still outside to seek to join, as Atlanticists argued, or alienate the rest of the world and drive them into opposite alliances. Realists, neutralists, and pacifists, nationalists and globalists tended to believe it would do the latter, citing the Warsaw Pact as the proof of their views and treating it as the inevitable realpolitik counterpart of NATO.\n\nAtlanticism is, broadly speaking, particularly strong in Britain (linked to the Special Relationship), and eastern and central Europe (i.e. the area between Germany and Russia). There are numerous reasons for its strength in Eastern Europe, primarily the role of the United States bringing political freedom there after the First World War, the role of the US in defeating Nazism, its leading role during the Cold War, its relative enthusiasm for bringing the countries of the region into Atlanticist institutions such as NATO, and a suspicion of the intentions of the major Western European powers. Countries such as Denmark, Poland, Romania, and the United Kingdom are among those who generally hold strong Atlanticist views, while Germany tends to promote continentalist views and a strong European Union.\n\nIn the early 21st century Atlanticism has tended to be slightly stronger on the political right in Europe (although many variations do exist from country to country), but the political center-left in the United States. The partisan division should not be overstated, but it exists and has grown since the end of the Cold War.\n\nWhile trans-Atlantic trade and political ties have remained mostly strong throughout the Cold War and beyond, the larger trend has been continentalist economic integration with the European Union (and its regional partners) and the North American Free Trade Agreement notably dividing the Atlantic region into two rival trade blocs. However, many political actors and commentators do not see the two processes as being necessarily opposed to one another, in fact some commentators believe regional integration can reinforce Atlanticism. Article 2 of the North Atlantic Treaty, added by Canada, also attempted to bind the nations together on economic and political fronts.\n\nThe North Atlantic Council is the premier, governmental forum for discussion and decision-making in an Atlanticist context. Other organizations that can be considered Atlanticist in origin: \n\nWell-known Atlanticists include former U.S. Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan; U.K. Prime Ministers Winston Churchill, Margaret Thatcher, Tony Blair, and Gordon Brown, François Mitterrand, Dean Acheson, Zbigniew Brzezinski, and Javier Solana.\n"}
{"id": "2089573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2089573", "title": "Black beret", "text": "Black beret\n\nThe black beret is a type of headgear commonly worn by armoured forces around the world including the British Army's Royal Tank Regiment (RTR), the Royal Canadian Armoured Corps (RCAC), and the Royal Australian Armoured Corps (RAAC). Notable non-armoured units to wear the black beret include the Russian Naval Infantry (and formerly Soviet) and Russian OMON units, the United States Air Force (USAF) Tactical Air Control Party (TACP), Philippine National Police-Special Action Force (PNP-SAF) members, and the Royal Canadian Navy (\"navy blue\"). It was also worn by the United Kingdom's Royal Observer Corps (ROC) with their Royal Air Force (RAF) uniform, Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA).\n\nPerhaps the most famous Commonwealth wearer of the black beret was Field Marshal Montgomery who wore a Royal Tank Regiment (RTR) beret complete with cap badge, presented to him by the regiment, to which he added his own general's (later field marshal's) rank insignia.\n\nThe black beret has its origins with the French 70th Chasseurs Alpins who influenced the British Royal Tank Corps beginning in 1918. General Sir Hugh Jamieson Elles, together with Colonel Fuller came up with the idea of a black beret for the Royal Tank Corps. Black was selected as the colour because it was least likely to show oil stains, something which tank crewmen of that time (and now) could appreciate. It was approved for wear with the Royal Tank Corps by HM King George V on 5 March 1924.\n\nThe Black Beret remained the exclusive distinctive headdress of the Royal Tank Corps in 1940.\n\nWhen uniforms were issued to the Royal Observer Corps there was a surplus of Royal Armoured Corps black berets that were given to the unit.\n\nIn the United States military, the beret was unofficially worn by a variety of special operations units during and following World War II. In the spring of 1951, the 10th and 11th Ranger Companies wore black berets during their training at Camp Carson, Colorado, before their deployment to Japan.\n\nIn 1979, the black beret was authorized for wear by enlisted personnel in the Tactical Air Control Party. In 1984, two airmen from Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina submitted the current flash and badge design. It was approved for all TACP airmen in 1985. Tactical Air Control Party specialists (AFSC 1C4X1) are currently the only United States Air Force specialty allowed to wear the coveted black beret as part of their daily duty uniform wear.\n\nIn 1973, permission was granted to local commanders to encourage distinctive, morale-enhancing uniform items and the black beret was adopted by armor and armored cavalry units in the United States.\n\nA black beret was authorized for wear by female soldiers in 1975.\n\nOn January 30, 1975, it was officially assigned as part of the newly created battalions of United States Army Rangers who had worn it unofficially during the Vietnam War.\n\nIn 1979, the army chief of staff ruled that the black beret was restricted to just ranger and airborne units (the latter receiving their distinctive maroon berets on November 28, 1980). However, since June 14, 2001, the black beret is worn by all United States Army troops unless the soldier is approved to wear a different distinctive beret. The Rangers now wear tan berets in reverence to the buckskins worn by Rogers' Rangers during the French and Indian War.\n\nThe black beret is worn as part of the Army Service Uniform (ASU), the U.S. Army's dress uniform. It also became the official garrison headgear to be worn with the Battle Dress Uniform (BDUs) in 2001, and from 2005 the Army Combat Uniform (ACU). The change was implemented by General Eric Shinseki, the Army Chief of Staff at the time, who stated that it was about promoting \"...our values as an institution.\" From the beginning, the beret was unpopular with soldiers, because the headgear required two hands to put it on, could not be carried in the pocket when not worn (as the patrol cap could), and provided no shade from the sun when worn.\n\nDespite years of negative feedback, the beret remained part of the ACU until 2011, when incoming Sergeant Major of the Army Raymond F. Chandler made it his first order of business to address the wishes \"thousands of soldiers\" who wanted the army to end the wear of the beret with the ACU, and the army subsequently did just that. The black beret remained the headgear for the ASU, but was replaced as the default headgear with the ACU patrol cap.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War the U.S. Navy personnel assigned to patrol boats wore the South Vietnamese navy black beret with badge. Unit tradition had the back ribbon cut into two pennants after first contact with the enemy with the ends of the pennant notched in a \"V\" to signify he had made an enemy \"kill\". \nUntil October 2016, a black beret was authorized to be worn, albeit solely by female U.S. Navy sailors of all ranks. Female commissioned officers wore the U.S. Navy officer crest on the beret above the left eyebrow, female petty officers and seamen wore the combination cover's device, and female chief petty officers wore their rate insignia instead. The female black beret's usage was discontinued along with the officer's tiara by the navy in 2016 as part of a naval effort to reduce the number of uniform items, make them appear more unisex, and also due to a lack of widespread use.\n\nIn the Turkish Land Forces, the black berets are worn by Armor personnel.\n\nIn the Polish Armed Forces, the black berets are worn by armored units of Polish Army, and by Polish Navy.\n\nIn the German Army, an oversized black beret was introduced during the Third Reich for panzer crews, to be worn over the crash helmet; however this was dropped in favour of a black garrison cap during World War II. Today the black beret (of conventional size) is worn by the Armoured Corps and the Armoured Reconnaissance Corps.\n\nThe black beret is worn by all soldiers in the Luxembourg Army.\n\nIn the Danish Army, the black beret was originally used by all combat regiments, but now it is worn by Jutland Dragoons, Guard Hussars, Royal Life Guard, Army Combat and Fire Support Center, Garnisonskommandant Vordingborg and 1st Danish Artillery Battalion\n\nIn the Portuguese Army, the black beret is worn by the cavalry branch, including the armoured troops and the military police. The black beret is also worn by several Portuguese civil forces, like the Bomb disposal unit of the Public Security Police, the Prison Guard Corps and the Civil Defense.\n\nIn the Chilean Army,the black beret is worn by the paras and the special forces.\n\nIn the Sri Lankan Army, the Armoured Corps, Mechanized Infantry and the Special Forces wear black berets.\n\nIn the Sri Lankan Navy, the black beret is worn by the Members of the elite Special Boat Squadron.\n\nIn the Spanish Army, the black beret is worn by the Mechanized Brigades and the Parachutist Brigade BRIPAC.\n\nIn the Spanish Air Force, the black beret is worn by the Paras: EZAPAC, Escuadrilla de Apoyo al Despliegue Aero (EADA) and SEADA as well as by Military Police Units. Members of EZAPAC also wear a Green Beret with their battle dress, to denote their Special Forces specialization. Traditionally black berets were used to denote para units, the custom originating in the Spanish Air Force, although its now used also by other, non-para units in the Army and the Air Force.\n\nIn the Belgian Army, the black beret is worn by armoured and engineer troops.\n\nIn the Dutch Army, the black beret is worn by cavalry battalions.\n\nIn the pre-2003 Iraqi Army, the black beret was the most commonly worn headgear and continues to be worn by both army and police personnel of the new Iraqi Army.\n\nIn the Israel Defense Forces, soldiers serving in the Armor Corps wear black berets.\n\nIn the Malaysian Army, the members of the Royal Armor Corps wear the black berets.\n\nIn the Philippine Army, the members of the 1st Scout Ranger Regiment, Presidential Security Group and Tank Officers from the Philippine Army Light Armor Division\n\nIn the Philippine Air Force, members of the Special Operations Wing wears black berets.\n\nIn the Philippine National Police, members of the Special Action Force wears black berets.\n\nIn the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority, members of the Traffic Enforcers wears black berets.\n\nIn the Singapore Armed Forces, members of the Armour formation wear black berets.\n\nIn the South African Army, members of the South African Armoured Corps including tank and armoured car units wear black berets.\n\nThe Norwegian Army Panserbataljonen (armoured) and other cavalry units wear black berets.\n\nIn the Indian Army, all Cavalry and Armoured Corps & National Security Guards wear black berets.\n\nIn the Pakistan Army, the Armoured Corps wears black berets as well as special forces.\n\nIn the Bangladesh Army, all units of the Armoured, Cavalry and Lancer Corps wear black berets.\n\nIn the Swedish Army, all armour and mechanized units wear black berets.\n\nIn the Irish Army the majority of the members of the Permanent Defence Forces, specifically the infantry, wear black berets except for certain combat support units such as MPs, Cavalry etc.\n\nIn the Czech Army the Military police unit-MP's.\n\nThe Irish Republican Army and its splinter groups wore black berets (with balaclavas) at events such as funerals of their members. A Black Beret was often placed on the coffin of the deceased.\n\nMembers of Serbian Military Police wear black berets.\n\nThe Finnish Panssarijääkäri (panzerjaegers) and members of the Armored Brigade also wear black berets.\n\nTactical Air Control Party members of the United States Air Force wear black berets with a flash and badge design.\n\nThe Brazilian armour and mechanized troops also wear the black beret, as well as the special forces unit of the Military Police of Rio de Janeiro, Batalhão de Operações Policiais Especiais (BOPE).\n\nThe Argentine Navy's Batallón de Infantería de Marina 5 (5th Marine Battalion), of Falklands War Mount Tumbledown fame (1982), wears a black beret. This was introduced by (then) Commander Manuel Tomé around 1977, and the beret was awarded on completion of a Cold Weather and Mountain Warfare Course. Today, all units of the Southern Marine Force of the Argentine Marine Corps wear black berets with unit badges.\n\nIn the Brazilian auxiliary military forces of the Polícia Militar (Military Police), specially in Minas Gerais state, officers sometimes wears black berets as official parts of patrol gear.\n\nIn the Canadian Armed Forces, black berets are worn by Royal Canadian Armoured Corps soldiers and by all sailors (except military police and special operations sailors).\n\nIn the Croatian Army black berets are worn by Military police units and by 1st Guard Brigade (Croatia).\n\nIn the Greek Army, black berets are worn by the Panzer (Armored Vehicles) branch, tracing back to the tradition of the original cavalry units.\n\nIn the Italian Army most units wear a black beret. Exceptions are: Paratroopers, Alpini, Army Aviation Corps (AVES) and Bersaglieri.\n\nIn the Indonesian Army, black beret is worn by the members of Cavalry Corps (except cavalry battalions under Kostrad strategic reserve command which wearing dark green beret universal to all of its soldiers).\n\nIn the Indonesian Navy, members of the Submarine Corps wear black berets.\n\nIn the Austrian Bundesheer all armoured units (Armoured Battalions, Mechanized Infantry Battalions, Artillery Battalions and Mechanized Headquarter Battalions), wear the black beret.\n\nIn the Venezuelan Army, black berets are of general use except for Paratroopers, Special Forces, Counter-insurgency troops and soldiers stationed inside the Ministry of Defence and Army headquarters.\n\nIn the Republic of Korea Army, black berets are worn by Republic of Korea Army Special Warfare Command special operations forces.\n\nIn the Swiss Army, black berets are worn by Tank Branch, Pioneers, Rescue Troops, Communication and Command Troops, high command, Tank Grenadiers, Chaplains, armed forces legal service and other troops.\n\nThe naval colour is officially \"very dark blue\". The Dutch Navy and Marines wear dark navy blue berets; a silver anchor for the Navy and a gold or dark brown (field duty) anchor on a red background for the Marines. The Portuguese Marines and San Marco Regiment, the Marines of the Italian Navy also wear a dark blue beret. The Royal Norwegian Air Force also use a dark blue beret. Finnish Marine Infantry wear a dark blue beret with the Navy insignia.(Finnish Coastal Jaegers - marine commandos - part of the same Nylands Brigade, wear the green beret).\n\nOne of the most famous photographs of Che Guevara taken by Alberto Korda was of him wearing a black beret with a gold star. Fidel Castro also wore a black beret during the revolution against the Batista government of Cuba. In the 1960s several activist groups adopted the beret.\n\n\n\nMilitary berets by color:\n"}
{"id": "315929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315929", "title": "Calendar reform", "text": "Calendar reform\n\nCalendar reform, properly calendrical reform, is any significant revision of a calendar system. The term sometimes is used instead for a proposal to switch to a different calendar design.\n\nThe prime objective of a calendar is to unambiguously identify any day throughout history by a specific date. \nPeriods that contain multiple days, like weeks, months and even years, are secondary features of a calendar for convenience.\nMost cultures adopt a primary dating system, but different cultures have always needed to align multiple calendars with each other, because they coexisted in the same space (e.g. secular and religious groups with different demands) or had established trading relations. \nOnce specified, a \"calendar design\" cannot be altered without becoming a new one, but if a design is sufficiently close to the one used before in the local \"calendar system\", switching to it and hence a calendar reform is possible without disruption. \nSome design changes, however, will yield date identifiers different from the previous design for some days, often in the distant past or future. \nThe calendar system must clarify whether dates are changed to the new design retroactively (using a \"proleptic calendar\") or whether the design in use then and there shall be respected. \nCalendar schisms happen if not all cultures that adopted a common calendar system before perform a calendar reform at the same time. \nIf date identifiers are similar but different, confusion and mistakes are unavoidable. \nMost calendars have several rules which could be altered by reform:\n\nHistorically, most calendar reforms have been made in order to synchronize the calendar with the astronomical year (either solar or sidereal) and/or the synodic month in lunar or lunisolar calendars. Most reforms for calendars have been to make them more accurate. This has happened to various lunar and lunisolar calendars, and also the Julian calendar when it was altered to the Gregorian calendar.\n\nThe fundamental problems of the calendar are that the astronomical year has neither a whole number of days nor a whole number of lunar months; neither does the lunar month have a whole number of days: in each case there are fractions \"left over\". (In some physical circumstances the rotations and revolutions of a planet and its satellite(s) can be phase-locked —for example the same side of the moon always faces us— but this has not operated to lock together the lengths of the Earth's year, day and month.) Such remainders could accumulate from one period to the next, thereby driving the cycles out of synch.\n\nA typical solution to force synchronization is 'intercalation'. This means occasionally adding an extra day (or month) into the cycle. An alternative approach is to ignore the mismatch and simply let the cycles continue to drift apart. The general approaches include:\n\n\nAn obvious disadvantage of the lunisolar method of inserting a whole extra month is the large irregularity of the length of the year from one to the next. The simplicity of a lunar calendar has always been outweighed by its inability to track the seasons, and a solar calendar is used in conjunction to remedy this defect. Identifying the lunar cycle month requires straightforward observation of the Moon on a clear night. However, identifying seasonal cycles requires much more methodical observation of stars or a device to track solar day-to-day progression, such as that established at places like Stonehenge. After centuries of empirical observations, the theoretical aspects of calendar construction could become more refined, enabling predictions that identified the need for reform.\n\nThere have been 50 to 100 reforms of the traditional Chinese calendar over 2500 years, most of which were intended to better fit the calendar months to astronomical lunations and to more accurately add the extra month so that the regular months maintain their proper seasonal positions, even though each seasonal marker can occur anywhere within its month.\nThere have been at least four similar reforms of the lunisolar version of the Hindu calendar, all intended to make the month a better match to the lunation and to make the year a better fit to the \"sidereal\" year. There have been reforms of the \"solar\" version of the Hindu calendar which changed the distribution of the days in each month to better match the length of time that the Sun spends in each \"sidereal\" zodiacal sign. The same applies to the Buddhist calendar. The first millennium reform of the Hebrew calendar changed it from an observational calendar into a calculated calendar. The Islamic calendar was a reform of the preceding lunisolar calendar which completely divorced it from the solar year.\n\nAnother reform was performed in Seljuk Persia by Omar Khayyam and others, developing the precisely computed Jalali calendar.\n\nWhen Julius Caesar took power in Rome, the Roman calendar had ceased to reflect the year accurately.\n\nThe Julian reform lengthened seven months and replaced the intercalary month with an intercalary day to be inserted within February every four years. This produced a noticeably more accurate calendar, but it had an average year length of 365 days and 6 hours (365.25 d). This had the effect of adding about three-quarters of an hour every four years. The effect accumulated from inception in 45 BC until by the 16th century the northward equinox was falling on March 10 or 11.\n\nUnder Pope Gregory XIII, the leap year rule was altered: century years which are not divisible by 400 would be common years. So 1700, 1800, 1900, 2100, 2200, 2300 and 2500 are not leap years. This rule makes the mean year 365.2425 days long. While this does not synchronize the years entirely, it would require a few thousand years to accumulate a day.\n\nSo that the northward equinox would have the same date in the new Gregorian calendar as it had when the Council of Nicaea made recommendations in AD 325 (), ten days were dropped so that became in 1582. This reform took a few centuries to spread through the nations that used the Julian calendar, although the Russian church year still uses the Julian calendar. Those nations that adopted this calendar on or after 1700 had to drop more than ten days: Great Britain, for instance, dropped eleven.\n\nIn 1923, Milutin Milanković proposed to a synod of some Eastern Orthodox Churches at Constantinople that only those centennial years (those ending in 00) that leave a remainder of 200 or 600 upon division by 900 would be leap years, decreasing the average year length to 365.242222 days. These remainders were chosen to delay the first year (after 1923) that this calendar would disagree with the Gregorian calendar as much as possible, until 2800. It was adopted by some Eastern Orthodox Churches under the names Revised Julian calendar or New calendar, but was rejected by others.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar is currently used by most of the world. There is also an international standard describing the calendar, ISO 8601, with some differences to traditional conceptions in many cultures.\n\nSince the papal reform in 1582, several proposals have been offered to make the Gregorian calendar more useful or regular. Very few reforms have gained official acceptance. The rather different decimal French Republican Calendar was one such official reform, but was abolished twelve years later by Napoleon. After World War II, the newly formed United Nations continued efforts of its predecessor, the League of Nations, to establish the proposed World Calendar but postponed the issue after a veto from the government of the United States, which was mainly based upon concerns of religious groups about the proposed days that would be outside the seven-day week cycle (\"blank days\") and thus disrupt having a sabbath every seven days. Independently the World Council of Churches still tries to find a common rule for the date of Easter, which might be eased by a new common calendar.\n\nReformers cite several problems with the Gregorian calendar:\n\nIt is hard or even impossible to solve all these issues in just one calendar.\n\nMost plans evolve around the solar year of a little more than 365 days. This number does not divide well by seven or twelve, which are the traditional numbers of days per week and months per year respectively. The nearby numbers 360, 364 and 366 are divisible in better ways. There are also lunar-centric proposals.\n\nMany calendar reforms have offered solutions to make the Gregorian calendar perennial. These reforms would make it easy to work out the day of the week of a particular date, and would make changing calendars each year unnecessary. There are, roughly speaking, two options to achieve this goal: leap week calendars and intercalary days. Leap week calendars add a leap week of seven days to the calendar every five or six years to keep the calendar roughly in step with the tropical year. They have years of either 364 days (52 weeks) or 371 days (53 weeks), thus preserving the 7-day week.\n\nProposals mainly differ in their selection of a leap rule, placing of the leap item (usually middle or end of the year), in the start day of the week and year, in the number (12 or 13) and size of months and in connected naming; some are compatible to the week date of ISO 8601.\n\nThe World Calendar, favored by the UN in the 1950s, and the International Fixed Calendar, quite popular among economists between the World Wars, are proposals that start each year on a Sunday. The 364 days within the week system form 52 weeks of 7 days. The World Calendar has every quarter beginning on the same day of the week. In the World Calendar, the 365th and 366th day are considered holidays and named Worlds Day and Leap Year Day. These \"off-calendar\" days stand outside the seven-day week and caused some religious groups to strongly oppose adoption of the World Calendar. Such concerns helped prevent the World Calendar from being adopted. Supporters of the World Calendar, however, argue that the religious groups' opposition overlooked every individual's right to celebrate these holidays as extra days of worship, or Sabbaths. This option, they reason, maintained the seven-day worship cycle for those who share that concern, while allowing benefits of a perennial calendar to be shared by all.\n\nSome calendar reform ideas, such as the Pax Calendar, Symmetry454 calendar and the Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar, were created to solve this problem by having years of either 364 days (52 weeks) or 371 days (53 weeks), thus preserving the 7-day week. The 53-week calendar, used in government and in business for fiscal years, is a variant of this concept. Each year of this calendar can be up to 371 days long.\n\nSome calendars have quarters of regularly patterned uneven months e.g., a 35-day (five-week) month and a pair of 28-day (four-week) months, with a leap week appended to the final month when needed. The Common Civil Calendar and Time calendar has months of 30 and 31 days, but inserts a leap week in the middle of the year, when needed, whereas its successor, the Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar, moves the extra week to the end of the year.\n\nIn the World Season Calendar, months are discarded altogether; instead, the year is divided into four seasons of 13 weeks each. An extra day (two days during leap year) is added to the calendar that is not assigned a day of the week in order to perennialize the calendar. The same calendar of 91 days is used for each season of every year.\n\nStill other proposals, like the 30x11 Calendar, abandon attempts to make the calendar perennial, instead opting for eleven 30-day months and one long month at the end of 35 (or 36) days.\n\nThe lengths of the months inherited from the old Roman calendar as reformed by Julius Caesar do not follow any apparent logic systematically. Many reform proposals seek to make the pattern more uniform. \nWhen keeping the traditional dozen of months and the close approximation of a solar year, this usually yields four equal quarters of three months each where one month is longer than the other two. The most common approaches are 30∶30∶31, 30∶31∶30 and 31∶30∶30 days per month, but 4∶4∶5, 4∶5∶4 and 5∶4∶4 weeks per months have also been proposed or used. They all result in 364 systematically distributed days and hence have to add either one extra and one leap day or a leap week. \nSome calendar designs do not use the same pattern for all quarters but, for instance, flip it in the middle of the year. This is more common with 31∶30 and 30∶31 patterns, which lead to 366 days of which one needs to be dropped in common years, since that is basically what the Julian and Gregorian calendars do except that July also has 31 days and February never has 30.\n\nIncidentally, the close correspondence to existing conventions is often considered an advantage, but even patterns that deviate more may have strong benefits. For instance, all quarterly patterns with 30 and 31 days per month result in a week distribution of 4∶5∶4 if a week is counted for the month most of its days belong to and the first day of the first month is also the first day of a week.\n\nA change in month lengths will frequently also result in months starting at a different ordinal day of the year, especially since all regular designs lengthen February. For a non-leap year, all designs with 91-day quarters realign in October with the Julian pattern and some as early as June, while all designs that are alternating odd and even months completely mismatch after January even if the last day of February remained the leap day.\n\nSome calendar reformers seek to equalize the length of each month in the year. This is often accomplished by creating a calendar that has 13 months of 4 weeks (28 days) each, making 364 days. The earliest known proposal of this type was the Georgian Calendar (1745) by Rev. Hugh Jones.\n\nThe Positivist calendar (1849), created by Auguste Comte, was based on a 364-day year which included one or two “blank” days. Each of the 13 months had 28 days and exactly four weeks, and each started on a Monday. The International Fixed Calendar is a more modern descendant of this calendar.\n\nSome proposals add one or two days to the calendar each year to account for the annual solar cycle, while others keep these days off the calendar entirely, to make the calendar perennial.\n\nAround 1930 Colligan invented the Pax Calendar, which avoids off-calendar days by adding a 7-day leap week to the 364-day common year for 71 out of 400 years. \n\nIn 1993, Lloydine and José Argüelles founded the World Thirteen Moon Calendar Change Peace Movement.\n\nDividing the years into 52 weeks creates 13 months of 28 days (4 weeks), and 4 quarters of 91 days (13 weeks). This creates months and quarters of fixed, even duration, but not quarters containing a whole number of months.\n\nInstead of a leap week or an extra day and a leap day, such a calendar design could add a 14th \"leap month\" of 4 weeks about every 22 years.\nWhile the Gregorian leap cycle of 400 years contains a whole number of 7-day weeks, this number is not divisible by 4, so this cycle would not be a good fit for a leap month calendar.\n\nThe Bahá'í calendar, established by the founders of the Bahá'í Faith, does not seek to reform the Gregorian calendar, but establishes a purely solar calendar. As of 2015, the year always starts in spring on the sunset to sunset day of the vernal equinox (calculated in advance). This calendar has 19 months of 19 days, with an extra 4 or 5 intercalary days added so that the year ends on the day before the next vernal equinox.\n\nLunisolar calendars usually have 12 or 13 months of 29 or 30 days.\n\nSome propose to improve leap rules of existing calendars, such as the Hebrew calendar. The Rectified Hebrew calendar uses a more accurate leap cycle of 4366 months per 353-year cycle, with 130 leap years per cycle, and a progressively shorter \"molad\" interval, intended to replace the 19-year leap cycle and the constant \"molad\" interval of the traditional fixed arithmetic Hebrew calendar, respectively.\n\nCalendar proposals that introduce a thirteenth month or change the Julian-Gregorian system of months often also propose new names for these months. New names have also been proposed for days out of the week cycle (e.g., 365th and leap) and weeks out of the month cycle.\n\nProposals to change the traditional month and weekday names are less frequent. The Gregorian calendar obtains its names mostly from gods of historical religions (e.g., Thursday from Nordic Thor or March from Roman Mars) or leaders of vanished empires (July and August from the first Cæsars), or ordinals that got out of synchronization (September through December, originally seventh through tenth, now ninth through twelfth).\n\nCalendar reformers, therefore, seek to correct what they see as deficiencies by focusing on more homogeneous sets of individuals, who usually share common traits.\n\nComte’s Positivist calendar, for example, proposed naming the 13 months in his calendar after figures from religion, literature, philosophy and science. Similarly, the Hermetic Lunar Week Calendar uses 12 or 13 lunar months named after 13 contributors to research on psychoactive plants and chemicals. The Simple Lunisolar Calendar names its months after the letters of the Greek alphabet.\n\nSome, such as Karl Palmen, have suggested reusing an existing 13 × 4 naming system, the one found in playing cards. Thus either months are numbered Ace, Two through Ten, Jack, Queen and King with four weeks each, named after the four suits (♠♣♥♦); or the roles are reversed if the calendar has four quarters with thirteen weeks each. Leap days or weeks are assigned the Joker. This system has internationalisation problems, though, because even where the 52-card deck is known, the order of suits may vary.\n\nThe contemporary ISO basic Latin alphabet has 26 letters, which could be used, together with a further binary indicator, as keys for 52 weeks.\n\nThere have been many specific calendar proposals to replace the Gregorian calendar:\n\nThe following count one or more days outside the standard seven-day week:\n\nThe following are leap week calendars:\n\nThe following track the moon as well as the sun:\n\nThere have also been proposals to revise the way years are numbered:\n\nReform of the Islamic calendar:\n\nSince the beginning of the 21st century, there is a trend within the Muslim communities of North America and Europe to substitute a lunar calendar based on calculations for the traditional Islamic method of monthly observation of the new moon to declare the beginning of the new month in each country separately. The details are in the following study:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23148804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23148804", "title": "Civic political culture", "text": "Civic political culture\n\nA civic culture or civic political culture is a political culture characterized by \"acceptance of the authority of the state\" and \"a belief in participation in civic duties\". The term was first used in Gabriel Almond and Sidney Verba's book, \"The Civic Culture\". Civic political culture is a mixture of other political cultures namely parochial, subject and participant political cultures. Almond and Verba characterised Britain as having a civic political culture. In \"Is Britain Still a Civic Culture?\" Patrick Seyd and Paul Whiteley discuss the extent to which Britain can still be regarded as having a civic political culture. The term civic culture is used to identify the political culture characteristics that explain the stability of a democratic society's political structure.\n\nAlmond and Verba state that the following are characteristics of a civic culture:\nIt is worth noting that the proper combination of the various types of political culture will provide a culture that has a positive implication for the growth of democracy.\n\nPateman, C. (1980). The civic culture: A philosophic critique. In Almond, G. & Verba, S., editors. The civic culture revisited. (1989). Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications.\n"}
{"id": "15165589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15165589", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979 was the fifth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. 39 countries attended the meeting. It was held in Lusaka, Zambia, between 1 August 1979 and 7 August 1979, and was hosted by that country's President, Kenneth Kaunda.\n\nIssues discussed at the conference included the situation in Rhodesia, the armed conflicts in Indo-China, the global growth of the refugee problem, the situation in Cyprus and Southern Africa. Mr Shridath Ramphal was re-appointed as Commonwealth Secretary-General during the meeting. The Lusaka Declaration of the Commonwealth on Racism and Racial Prejudice was issued at the end of the CHOGM, including a special declaration condemning apartheid. \n"}
{"id": "54203454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54203454", "title": "Community governance", "text": "Community governance\n\nCommunity governance focuses on power that communities exercise in order to achieve policy outcomes that suit their needs. Through this, it fills the gaps that are created by larger governmental structures and market lags that are not dealt with at state and federal levels. Top-down approaches to community governance include community government wherein elected officials set policy and exact power over their local communities to enact policies while bottom-up approaches focus on citizen action at the grassroots level wherein communities form action groups and leaders demand change and create policy.\nCommunity governance takes decision-making and community leadership executed by community members that have a vested interest in their community. By focusing on community instead of the non-profit, for-profit, and government sectors, community governance distinguishes itself from other forms of governance.\n"}
{"id": "1096446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096446", "title": "Consent of the governed", "text": "Consent of the governed\n\nIn political philosophy, the phrase consent of the governed refers to the idea that a government's legitimacy and moral right to use state power is only justified and lawful when consented to by the people or society over which that political power is exercised. This theory of consent is historically contrasted to the divine right of kings and had often been invoked against the legitimacy of colonialism. Article 21 of the United Nation's 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that \"The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government\".\n\nIn his 1937 book \"A History of Political Theory\", George Sabine collected the views of many political theorists on consent of the governed. He notes the idea mentioned in 1433 by Nicholas of Cusa in \"De Concordantia Catholica\". In 1579 Theodore Beza wrote \"Vindiciae contra Tyrannos\" which Sabine paraphrases: \"The people lay down the conditions which the king is bound to fulfill. Hence they are bound to obedience only conditionally, namely, upon receiving the protection of just and lawful government…the power of the ruler is delegated by the people and continues only with their consent.\" In England, the Levellers also held to this principle of government.\n\nJohn Milton wrote\nSimilarly, Sabine notes the position of John Locke in \"Essay concerning Human Understanding\": \nHowever, with David Hume a contrary voice is heard. Sabine interprets Hume's skepticism by noting\nSabine revived the concept from its status as a political myth after Hume, by referring to Thomas Hill Green. Green wrote that government required \"will not force\" for administration. As put by Sabine,\nConsent of the governed, within the social liberalism of T. H. Green, was also described by Paul Harris:\n\"Consent of the governed\" is a phrase found in the United States Declaration of Independence.\n\nUsing thinking similar to that of John Locke, the founders of the United States believed in a state built upon the consent of \"free and equal\" citizens; a state otherwise conceived would lack legitimacy and Rational-legal authority. This was expressed, among other places, in the 2nd paragraph of the Declaration of Independence (emphasis added):\n\nWe hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.--That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the , --That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness.\n\nAnd in the earlier Virginia Declaration of Rights, especially Section 6, quoted below, founding father George Mason wrote:\n\nThat elections of members to serve as representatives of the people, in assembly, ought to be free; and that all men, having sufficient evidence of permanent common interest with, the attachment to, the community, have the right of suffrage, and cannot be taxed or deprived of their property for public uses without their own consent, or that of their representatives so elected, nor bound by any law to which they have not, in like manner, assented, for the public good.\"\nAlthough the Continental Congress at the outset of the American Revolution had no explicit legal authority to govern, it was delegated by the states with all the functions of a national government, such as appointing ambassadors, signing treaties, raising armies, appointing generals, obtaining loans from Europe, issuing paper money (called \"Continentals\"), and disbursing funds. The Congress had no authority to levy taxes, and was required to request money, supplies, and troops from the states to support the war effort. Individual states frequently ignored these requests. According to the \"Cyclopædia of Political Science\". New York: Maynard, Merrill, and Co., 1899, commenting on the source of the Congress' power:\nThe appointment of the delegates to both these congresses was generally by popular conventions, though in some instances by state assemblies. But in neither case can the appointing body be considered the original depositary of the power by which the delegates acted; for the conventions were either self-appointed \"committees of safety\" or hastily assembled popular gatherings, including but a small fraction of the population to be represented, and the state assemblies had no right to surrender to another body one atom of the power which had been granted to them, or to create a new power which should govern the people without their will. The source of the powers of congress is to be sought solely in the acquiescence of the people, without which every congressional resolution, with or without the benediction of popular conventions or state legislatures, would have been a mere \"brutum fulmen\"; and, as the congress unquestionably exercised national powers, operating over the whole country, the conclusion is inevitable that the will of the whole people is the source of national government in the United States, even from its first imperfect appearance in the second continental congress...\n\nA key question is whether the unanimous consent of the governed is required; if so, this would imply the right of secession for those who do not want to be governed by a particular collective. All democratic governments today allow decisions to be made even over the dissent of a minority of voters, which in some theorists' view, calls into question whether said governments can rightfully claim, in all circumstances, to act with the consent of the governed.\n\nThe theory of hypothetical consent of the governed holds that one's obligation to obey government depends on whether the government is such that one \"ought\" to consent to it, or whether the people, if placed in a state of nature without government, would agree to said government. This theory has been rejected by some scholars, who argue that since government itself can commit aggression, creating a government to safeguard the people from aggression would be similar to the people, if given the choice of what animals to be attacked by, trading \"polecats and foxes for a lion\", a trade that they would not make.\n\nAnother division that is sometimes made is between overt consent and tacit consent. Overt consent, to be valid, would require voluntariness, a specific act on the part of the consenters, a particular act consented to, and specific agents who perform this action. Immigrating into a particular jurisdiction is sometimes regarded as an overt act indicating consent to be ruled by that jurisdiction's government. Not all who are ruled by a particular government have immigrated to that jurisdiction, however; some were born there; however others argue that the power to emigrate from (i.e. leave) a jurisdiction \"implies\" such consent omission.\n\nIt has been pointed out that in jurisdictions where proportional representation is not used, but candidates are instead elected by plurality vote, a candidate can be elected despite the overt dissent of a majority of the people. Not every voter has necessarily had an opportunity to vote on the constitutional provisions specifying that plurality voting should be used; according to some theorists, this calls into question whether said voters have consented to be governed by the candidates who obtain plurality support. A counterargument is that, by failing to act through the process of constitutional amendment to change such provisions, the people have consented to them. A rebuttal to this is that in some jurisdictions, the means of amending the constitution are not completely in the hands of the electorate; the same issues arise, in claiming that the constitution left in place by the decisions of the people's elected representatives is consented to by the people, as arise in claiming that any other actions taken by said representatives are consented to by the people. Some proponents of the \"overt consent\" theory hold that the act of voting implies consent, while others question the connection between voting and consenting to a particular scheme of representative, since some voters may oppose the system as a whole but desire to influence decisions on particular issues or candidates.\n\nThe theory of tacit consent of the governed holds that if the people live in a country that is not undergoing a rebellion, they have consented to the rule of that country's government. However, this likewise meets with the criticism that tacit consent is incompatible with \"express\" opposition: i.e. the People cannot consent if they have no \"right\" to refuse.\n\nIn 1988, Edward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky described a propaganda model of news media in the United States in which coverage of current events was skewed by corporations and the state in order to manufacture the consent of the governed. According to the propagandist Edward L. Bernays, the public may be manipulated by its subconscious desires to render votes to a political candidate. The public relations techniques were described in his essay and book \"The Engineering of Consent\" (1955). Consent thus obtained undermines the legitimacy of government: \"The basic principle involved is simple but important: If the opinions of the public are to control the government, these opinions must not be controlled by the government.\"\n\nThe theory of literal consent holds the logical position that valid consent must denote final authority belonging to the people, rather than elected officials, therefore this implies that the people have the absolute sovereign power to overrule their government at any time via popular vote (or as stated in the Declaration of Independence, \"the right of the People to alter or abolish\" their government). Without this unfettered power, theorists hold that true consent cannot exist and that any government is therefore despotism via governing the people by force without their actual consent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2195817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2195817", "title": "Contentious politics", "text": "Contentious politics\n\nContentious politics is the use of disruptive techniques to make a political point, or to change government policy. Examples of such techniques are actions that disturb the normal activities of society such as demonstrations, general strike action, riot, terrorism, civil disobedience, and even revolution or insurrection. Social movements often engage in contentious politics. The concept distinguishes these forms of contention from the everyday acts of resistance explored by James C. Scott, interstate warfare, and forms of contention employed entirely within institutional settings, such as elections or sports. Historical sociologist Charles Tilly defines contentious politics as \"interactions in which actors make claims bearing on someone else's interest, in which governments appear either as targets, initiators of claims, or third parties.\"\n\nContentious politics has existed forever, but its form varies over time and space. For example, Tilly argues that the nature of contentious politics changed fairly dramatically with the birth of social movements in 18th-century Europe. \n\nThe concept of contentious politics was developed throughout the 1990s and into the 21st century by its most prominent scholars in the United States: Sidney Tarrow, Charles Tilly, and Doug McAdam. Until its development, the study of contentious politics was divided among a number of traditions each of which were concerned with the description and explanation of different contentious political phenomena, especially the social movement, the strike, and revolution. One of the primary goals of these three authors was to advance the explanation of these phenomena and other contentious politics under a single research agenda. There remains a significant plurality of agendas in addition to the one these three propose.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58561613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58561613", "title": "Dawn Creekmore", "text": "Dawn Creekmore\n\nDawn Creekmore (born February 28, 1965) is an American politician who served in the Arkansas House of Representatives from the 27th district from 2005 to 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2536492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2536492", "title": "Deference", "text": "Deference\n\nDeference (also called submission or passivity) is the condition of submitting to the espoused, legitimate influence of one's superior or superiors. Deference implies a yielding or submitting to the judgment of a recognized superior, out of respect or reverence. Deference has been studied extensively by political scientists, sociologists, and psychologists.\n\nSmolenski (2005) examines deference in colonial Pennsylvania, to see how claims to political authority were made, justified, and accepted or rejected. He focuses on the \"colonial speech economy,\" that is, the implicit rules that determined who was allowed to address whom and under what conditions, and describes how the qualities that inspired deference changed in the province from 1691 to 1764. The Quaker elite initially established a monopoly on political leadership based on what they believed to be their inherent civic virtue grounded in their religious and social class. By 1760, this view had been discredited and replaced with the consensus that civic virtue was an achieved, not an inherent, attribute and that it should be determined by the display of appropriate manliness and the valor of men who were willing to take up arms for the common defense of the colony. Further, Pennsylvanians came to believe that all white men, not just wealthy property owners, were equally capable of achieving political voice. Martial masculinity, therefore, became the defining characteristic of the ideal citizen and marked a significant transformation in the way individuals justified their right to represent the public interest.\n\nErving Goffman, a Canadian-born sociologist and writer, explored the relationship between deference and demeanor in his 1967 essay \"The Nature of Deference and Demeanor\". According to Goffman, a person with a poor demeanor will be held in lower esteem in the eyes of society. The same is true for people who behave in a good demeanor, however: society will hold them in a higher esteem. An example of this situation can be seen through the way a person acts in a social setting. e.g. a man pulling out a chair for a woman at a restaurant. On the other end of the spectrum, a person not bathing before they go to a fancy dinner party. These examples can be defined as presentational deference. Demeanor does not only limit itself to the actions of an individual, but also the appearance of an individual. A person offers themselves to a social group through a good appearance or a well demeanored appearance. When an individual has a well demeanored appearance it makes interaction between people easier. After a person is socially accepted to a group, it is expected that they will conform to interactional norms. Through acting on those norms, people receive deference.\n\nThere is ongoing debate among psychologists as to the extent to which deference in a relationship is determined by a person's innate personality type or is the result of a person's experiences and conditioning. In interpersonal relationships, a partner can assume a submissive role to fit in or to make him or herself acceptable to the other partner, and can be a benign aspect of a relationship. On the other hand, it may be an indication of an interpersonal problem, such as partner abuse. If one or both of the people are experiencing chronic, pervasive emotional distress then the sex partners or individuals may require psychological evaluation.\n\nIn interpersonal relationships, some people prefer or are willing to adopt a submissive role in sexual activities or personal matters. The level and type of submission can vary from person to person, and from one context to another; and also is dependent on the other partner being willing to assume control in those situations. Some people can include occasional acts of submission in an otherwise conventional sex life, or adopt a submissive lifestyle.\n\n"}
{"id": "15225843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15225843", "title": "Ecogovernmentality", "text": "Ecogovernmentality\n\nEcogovernmentality, (or environmentality), is the application of Foucault’s concepts of biopower and governmentality to the analysis of the regulation of social interactions with the natural world. The concept of Ecogovernmentality expands on Foucault’s genealogical examination of the state to include ecological rationalities and technologies of government (Malette, 2009). Begun in the mid-1990s by a small body of theorists (Luke, Darier, and Rutherford) the literature on ecogovernmentality grew as a response to the perceived lack of Foucauldian analysis of environmentalism and in environmental studies.\n\nFollowing Michel Foucault, writing on ecogovernmentality focuses on how government agencies, in combination with producers of expert knowledge, construct “The Environment.” This construction is viewed both in terms of the creation of an object of knowledge and a sphere within which certain types of intervention and management are created and deployed to further the government’s larger aim of managing the lives of its constituents. This governmental management is dependent on the dissemination and internalization of knowledge/power among individual actors. This creates a decentered network of self-regulating elements whose interests become integrated with those of the State.\n\nEcogovernmentality is part of the broader area of political ecology. It can be situated within the ongoing debates over how to balance concern with socio-natural relationships with attention to the actual environmental impact of specific interactions. The term is most useful to authors like Bryant, Watts and Peet who argue for the importance of a phenomenology of nature that builds from post-structuralist concerns with knowledge, power and discourse. In addition, it is of particular use to geographers because of its ability to link place based socio-environmental phenomena with the non-place based influences of both national and international systems of governance. Particularly, for studies of environmental changes that extend beyond the borders one particular region, ecogovernmentality can prove a useful analytical tool for tracing the manifestations of specific policy across scales ranging from the individual, the community, the state and on to larger structures of international environmental governance.\n\nWork done by Rutherford, on US Environmental Impact Assessments, and by Agrawal on local forest governance in India, are examples of this method of analysis. Both illustrate how the production of specific types of expert knowledge (statistical models of pollution, or the economic productivity of forests) coupled with specific technologies of government (the EIA assessment regime or local Forest Stewardship Councils) can bring individual interest in line with those of the state. This, not through the imposition of specific outcomes, but by creating frameworks that rationalizes behavior in particular ways and involve individuals in the process of problem definition and intervention.\n\nWithin a geographical context, this type of analysis provides insight into how territory is brought under state control, and how the regulation of human interaction with this territory is achieved. Focusing on the evolution of techniques of cartography, systems of natural classification, and early attempts at scientific resource management in the 18th and 19th centuries, Braun (2000, 2003) and Scott (1998) show how new systems of knowledge extend systems of governmentality into the natural world. Fundamental to this analysis is a connection between the abstract utilitarian logic employed by states and the shape of the territory under their control. In Scott, for example, measuring nature in terms of concepts of production and natural resources “allowed the state to impose that logic on the very reality that was observed” (Scott, 14). The complex natural systems of a given place are first depicted as simplified sites of managed resource extraction. As part of this management their ecological composition is changed (through types of planting, harvesting and extraction) in an attempt to make them resemble more closely the simplified statistical systems with which they are measured.\n\nIn this manifestation, which focuses primarily on the administration of particular resources at a national level, ecogovernmentality is linked to the larger governmental aims identified by Foucault of securing the wellbeing of its inhabitants by managing “a complex composed of men and things” (93). Scott’s work on scientific forestry in early modern Europe shows how the rational models constructed by state foresters were part of the larger body of statistical knowledge created to manage population and facilitate “taxation, political control, and conscription” (23). Likewise, Braun’s analysis of the Geological Survey of Canada creates a clear link between methods of measuring and representing the mineral composition of a territory, and the structures of government put in place both to create the concept of a unified nation and “to manage individuals, goods and wealth so as to improve the condition of the state’s population” (27).\n\nHere, ecogovernmentality is seen as a subset of concerns within of the larger Foucauldian concept. But implicit in this is an important claim: that the types of knowledge produced in the process of making nature intelligible to the state have an important influence on the evolution of state rationality itself, an influence not adequately covered in Foucault’s original formulation. They seek to add to Foucault’s discussion of population and the operation of systems of knowledge/power that normalized certain ways of acting and being and marginalized others. Building on Foucault’s brief references to “resources, means of subsistence [and] the territory with its specific qualities”(93), their contribution is the investigation of the parallel systems of measuring and assigning value to the natural world (the “crop” and the “weed” (Scott, 13) acting as homologies to categories like “sanity” and “insanity” in Foucault’s work) and to give these their due in discussions of the formation of state rationality and structures of governmentality.\n\nThe work of Timothy Luke pushes the reach of this concept further, by envisaging a radically different relationship between governmentality and ecogovernmentality. He argues that the ecological domain has become the “ultimate domain of being”(150) the key location for the production of knowledge and power. Following Foucault, Luke traces this transformation back to a specific historical moment, the period of the early 70s encompassing the oil crisis and the détente between the USSR and the US. From these beginnings, environmental considerations grow, fertilized during the 1980s by the formation of international bodies, like the UN World Commission on Environment and Development, and increased concern and awareness over ecological limits to human development. The end result is the “environmentalization” of the production and exercise of knowledge and power. Reversing the earlier focus on the integration of environmental knowledge into broader state projects of socio-economic management, here it is these projects themselves which are reshaped by new forms of environmental knowledge (specifically the concepts of “ecology” and “sustainability”). It is this new structure that becomes known as Ecogovernmentality.\n\nLuke argues that heightened awareness of social vulnerability to environmental factors coupled with the increased importance of macro-economic competition (rather than Cold-War military confrontation) in geo-political power struggles led to the rise of sustainable development as the synthesis of these two interrelated concerns. The disciplinary power of governmentality is refigured as “enviro-discipline”, a broader concept that “expresses the authority of eco-knowledgeable, geo-powered forces to police the fitness of all biological organisms and the health of their natural environments” (146). This constitutes an important expansion of the object of governmental rule and the area to be managed. Foucault’s focus on “population” now includes “all of life’s biodiversity” (Luke, 122) and, given the interconnected nature of environmental systems, states must now seek to extend their control far outside of their territorial boundaries to ensure the security and productivity of their population (Luke 134).\n\nUniting both broad and narrow definitions of Ecogovernmentality is the attention paid to environmental subject formation, or the creation of environmental subject positions. Definitions of these subject positions vary from Darrier’s (1999) construction of the environmental subject as a site for resistance to consumerism and the commodification of the relationship between the individual and the environment, through Agrawal’s broadly neutral concept of “environmentality” which denotes an acceptance on the part of the individual that nature is an object to be managed and their accompanying involvement in this process, to Luke’s (1999) assertion that “the environment emerges as a ground for normalizing individual behavior” that supersedes the previous influences of “the ethical concerns of family, community and nation” (149). Underlying these divergent definitions, is the common claim that the relationship between individual and environment is key to current analysis of systems of state management and governmentality.\n\nSince about 2002, scholars have analyzed the discourses surrounding global climate change and related policies using ideas from Foucault and from ecogovernmentality.\n\nThis subfield or application of ecogovernmentality developed first by applying Foucauldean thought to analysis of national and international climate regimes, identifying categories and methodologies that work particularly well for climate change issues. As the application of ecogovernmentality to climate change has evolved, the principles of the theory have also been applied — in appropriately modified ways — to studies of state and local government as well as private and nonprofit organizations.\n\nEcogovernmentality-grounded theories and methods of analysis have also begun to emerge as tools for examining climate change in fields outside political economy, such as communications and international relations.\n\nAs researchers began to explore the application of ecogovernmentality to climate change problems and discourses, most studies focused on national and global scales. For example, an early study by Paul Henman applied governmentality to Australian national policy and climate change modeling, concluding that modeling was a technology for rendering climate governable though it would limit the capacity of government to respond. Sverker Jagers and Johannes Stripple’s work published in 2003 identified the importance of non-nation-state actors (NNSAs) in climate change mitigation and adaptation efforts and suggested that “private regimes” like the insurance industry may be more successful than national and global power structures in addressing the problem.\n\nStudies applying governmentality to climate change picked up in frequency in the mid-2000s. Angela Oels’ 2005 paper summarized the initial forays into governmentality-based analyses for climate change discourses and suggested that the functioning governmentality of the issue had shifted since the 1980s, from a biopower-based discourse to one rooted in advanced liberal government. She demonstrated a method of discourse analysis particularly suited for addressing climate change, examining objectives, fields of visibility, technical aspects, forms of knowledge and formation of identities. Oels also provided some categories into which discourses can be sorted. These categories were also used by Karin Bäckstrand and Eva Lövbrand, beginning in 2006 with analysis of tree-planting initiatives stemming from the Kyoto Protocol. Their analysis of competing discourses in categories of ecological modernization, green governmentality, and civic environmentalism revealed areas of overlap and potential cooperation.\n\nAlso in 2006, Maria Carmen Lemos collaborated with Agrawal on a comprehensive summary of environmental governance studies to that date. They divided the applications of these studies into two categories: resource management and climate change. Among other useful insights, their work provided a clear schematic for classifying new, hybrid forms of environmental governance and identifying where these forms derive their power — that is, from combinations of the state, the community, and the market.\n\nMore recent studies have applied ecogovernmentality precepts to discourses at state and local levels. Chukwumerije Okereke, Harriet Bulkeley and Heike Schroeder published a study in 2009 that examined possible problems of power, relationships, structures, and agency in climate governance at scales other than national or global. They suggested that examining these issues may help to overcome what they identify as an “impasse” in governmentality studies of global environmental problems.\n\nAs another example of an ecogovernmentality study of climate change at a non-global, non-national scale, Bulkeley’s 2010 paper examined network governance, vertical and horizontal power structures, political economics, the restructuring of the state, and institutional capacity, all at the urban scale. Bulkeley argued for the importance of nuanced analyses of government at non-national, non-global scales as an important field in climate change governmentality studies.\n\nA survey study from Dallas Elgin, Andrew Pattison and Christopher M. Weible in 2011 examines analytical capacity regarding climate change at the (U.S.) state level, concluding that the neoliberal government there is not as “hollowed out” as they expected but still lacks needed analytical capacity.\n\nEcogovernmentality-grounded studies in climate change are also emerging in fields outside political economy. For example, Max Boykoff’s work analyzing media coverage of climate change in his 2011 book was grounded in discourses analysis along with his perhaps-better-known content analysis methods. Peter Weingart, Anita Engels and Petra Pansegrau published a study using a similar combination of methods in 2000, but Boykoff’s work was cited in An Inconvenient Truth and has received far more scholarly and public attention. Other media studies scholars have followed Boykoff’s lead incorporating discourses analysis in their work.\n\nIn another communications-related study, David Ockwell, Lorraine Whitmarsh and Saffron O’Neill applied governmentality concepts to a U.K. government marketing campaign aimed at increasing “green” behaviors in citizens. In their analysis of why the campaign was ineffective, they identify regime-based barriers to behavior change, including infrastructure, financial, and structural barriers.\n\nChris Methmann has published work on global warming as a form of global governmentality in the field of international relations, citing the carbon market as a means of conducting individual conduct from a global scale. He concluded that the Clean Development Mechanism of carbon credit trading has become easily established because it protects “business as usual” – the established order of power.\n\nRobyn Dowling argued for inclusion of ecogovernmentality perspectives regarding identity formation in the field of human geography in her 2008 paper, which addressed a variety of issues, including climate change.\n\n"}
{"id": "364896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364896", "title": "European Court of Auditors", "text": "European Court of Auditors\n\nThe Court of Auditors (European Court of Auditors, ECA) (French: \"Cour des comptes européenne\") is the fifth institution of the European Union (EU). It was established in 1975 in Luxembourg.\n\nThe Court of Auditors was created by the 1975 Budgetary Treaty and was formally established on 18 October 1977, holding its first session a week later. At that time the Court was not a formal institution; it was an external body designed to audit the finances of the European Communities. It replaced two separate audit bodies, one which dealt with the finances of the European Economic Community and Euratom, and one which dealt with the European Coal and Steel Community.\n\nThe Court did not have a defined legal status until the Treaty of Maastricht when it was made the fifth institution, the first new institution since the founding of the Community. By becoming an institution it gained some new powers, such as the ability to bring actions before the European Court of Justice (ECJ). At first its audit power related only to the European Community pillar of the European Union (EU), but under the Treaty of Amsterdam it gained the full power to audit the finances of the whole of the EU.\n\nDespite its name, the Court has no judicial functions. It is rather a professional external investigatory audit agency. The primary role of the court is to externally check if the budget of the European Union has been implemented correctly, in that EU funds have been spent legally and with sound management. In doing so, the court checks the paperwork of all persons handling any income or expenditure of the Union and carries out spot checks. The court is bound to report any problems in the Court's reports for the attention of other states and institutions, these reports include its general annual report as well as specific and special reports on certain bodies and issues. The Court's decision is the basis for the European Commission decisions; for example, when the Court found problems in the management of EU funds in the regions of England, the Commission suspended funds to those regions and prepared to fine those who did not come back up to acceptable standards.\n\nIn this role, the Court has to remain independent yet remain in touch with the other institutions; for example, a key role is the presentation of the Court's annual report to the European Parliament. It is based on this report that the Parliament makes its decision on whether or not to sign off the European Commission's handling of the budget for that year. The Parliament notably refused to do this in 1984 and 1999, the latter case forced the resignation of the Santer Commission. The Court, if satisfied, also sends assurances to the Council and Parliament that the taxpayers' money is being properly used, and the Court must be consulted before the adoption of any legislation with financial implications, but its opinion is never binding.\n\nThe Court is composed of one member from each EU state, each of whom is—after a hearing in the Budgetary Control Committee and a non-binding majority-vote in the committee as well as in the plenary of the European Parliament—appointed unanimously by the Council of the European Union for a renewable term of six years. They are not all replaced every six years, however, as their terms do not coincide (four of the original members began with reduced terms of four years for this reason). Members are chosen from people who have served in national audit bodies, who are qualified for the office and whose independence is beyond doubt. While serving in the Court, members cannot engage in any other professional activities. As the body is independent, its members are free to decide their own organisation and rules of procedure, although these must be ratified by the Council of the European Union. Since the Treaty of Nice, the Court can set up \"chambers\" (with only a few Members each) to adopt certain types of reports or opinions.\n\nThe Court is supported by a staff of approximately 800 auditors, translators and administrators recruited as part of the European Civil Service. Auditors are divided into auditor groups which inspect and prepare draft reports for the Court to take decisions upon. Inspections take place not only of EU institutions but of any state which receives EU funds, given that 90% of income and expenditure is managed by national authorities rather than the EU. Upon finding a fault, the Court—possessing no legal powers of its own—informs the European Anti-fraud Office (\"OLAF\"), which is the EU's anti-fraud agency. The Court is also assisted by the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, elected by the Court, who—along with general management and assistance to the President—draws up draft minutes and keeps archives of decisions, as well as ensuring the publication of reports in the \"Official Journal of the European Union\".\n\nThe members then elect one of their number as the President of the Court for a renewable three-year term. The election takes place by a secret ballot of those members who applied for the presidency. The duties of the President (which may be delegated) are to convene and chair the meetings of the Court, ensuring that decisions are implemented and the departments (and other activities) are soundly managed. The president also represents the court and appoints a representative for it in contentious proceedings.\n\nThe current President is Klaus-Heiner Lehne, elected on 13 September 2016. He succeeded Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira (of Portugal), elected in 2007. Previous presidents have been Sir Norman Price (1977, United Kingdom), Michael Murphy (1977, Ireland), Pierre Lelong (1981, France), Marcel Mart (1984, Luxembourg), Aldo Angioi (1990, Italy), André Middelhoek (1992, Netherlands), Bernhard Friedmann (1996, Germany), Jan O. Karlsson (1999, Sweden), Juan Manuel Fabra Vallés † (2002, Spain) and Hubert Weber (2006, Austria).\n\nThe Secretary-General is the European Court of Auditors most senior member of staff. Appointed for a renewable term of 6 years, he is responsible for the management of the Court's staff and for the administration of the Court. In addition, the Secretary-General is responsible for the budget, translation, training and information technology.\n\n\nSince 1994 the Court has been required to provide a \"Declaration of Assurance\", essentially a certificate that an entire annual budget can be accounted for. This has proved to be a problem, as even relatively minor omissions require the Court to refuse a declaration of assurance for the entire budget, even if almost all of the budget is considered reliable.\n\nThis has led to media reports of the EU accounts being \"riddled with fraud\", where issues are based on errors in paperwork even though the underlying spending was legal. The auditing system itself has drawn criticism from this perception. The Commission in particular has stated that the bar is too high, and that only 0.09% of the budget is subject to fraud. The Commission has elsewhere stated that it is important to distinguish between fraud and other irregularities. The controversial dismissal in 2003 of Marta Andreasen for her criticism of procedures in 2002 has, for some, called into doubt the integrity of the institutions.\n\nIt is frequently claimed that annual accounts have not been certified by the external auditor since 1994. In its annual report on the implementation of the 2009 EU Budget, the Court of Auditors found that the two biggest areas of the EU budget, agriculture and regional spending, have not been signed off on and remain \"materially affected by error\".\n\nTerry Wynn, an MEP who served on the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and reached the position of chairman, has also backed these calls, stating that it is impossible for the Commission to achieve these standards. In a report entitled \"EU Budget – Public Perception & Fact – how much does it cost, where does the money go and why is it criticised so much?\", Wynn cites consensus that practice in the EU differs from that in the USA. In the USA, the focus is on the financial information, not on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, 'So, other than in Europe, the political reaction in the US to the failure to obtain a clean audit opinion is only \"a big yawn\"'.\n\nBy comparison, the Comptroller and Auditor General for the United Kingdom stated that there were 500 separate accounts for the UK, and \"in the last year, I qualified 13 of the 500. If I had to operate the EU system, then, because I qualify 13 accounts, I might have to qualify the whole British central government expenditure\". Despite the problems, the Barroso Commission stated that it aimed to bring the budget within the Court's limits by the end of its mandate in 2009.\n\nThe ECA made clear in its year report for 2010 that \"Responsibility for the legality and regularity of spending on Cohesion Policies starts in the Member States, but the Commission bears the ultimate responsibility for the correct implementation of the budget\". In previous reports, the ECA has noted that \"Regardless of the method of implementation applied, the Commission bears the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the European Communities (Article 274 of the Treaty)\".\n\nThe size of the court has also come under criticism. Owing to the one-member-per-state system, its members grew from nine to twenty-seven as of 2007. Attempting to get consensus in the body has thus become more difficult; this led to the number of its special reports per year shrinking from fifteen to six between 2003 and 2005, despite its staff growing by 200 over the same period. Some proposals have been for its size to be reduced to five members or just one, possibly with an advisory board with members from each member state. However, neither the European Constitution nor the Treaty of Lisbon proposed any changes to its composition, despite calls by former court members and MEPs to embrace change. The court offer approximately 50 traineeships a year, successful applicants come mainly from financial, economic, accounting and legal backgrounds. The ECA traineeship program receives thousands of applications across Europe every year for the February and May intakes, with an extremely competitive selection process.\n\n"}
{"id": "25359904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25359904", "title": "Financial irregularities during the Manuel Zelaya administration", "text": "Financial irregularities during the Manuel Zelaya administration\n\nAlleged Financial irregularities during the Manuel Zelaya administration received attention of many Hondurans.\nIn late 2008, Zelaya went as far as refusing to send Congress a budget, claiming that it was impossible to come up with numbers, even though the constitution required the president to provide budget. The alleged irregularities are currently being investigated by the post coup government.\n\nAt least 20 alleged corruption scandals came to light during his first year. By February 2007, his administration had prosecuted four cases, and three had been dismissed while the others were still being investigated.\n\nOne of the early instances of alleged financial irregularities in the administration was a contract to resurface 94 miles of road from Tegucigalpa to Danli. The company was paid the full price of the contract, but it resurfaced only 50 kilometers.\n\nZelaya spent millions of dollars on consulting and professional costs without documentation.\nA joint investigation by auditors in Honduras has so far identified alleged squandering of presidential expenses amounting to 123,025,613.63 lempiras.\n\nHondutel was the best-documented case of embezzlement. Manuel Zelaya's nephew Marcelo Chimirri is one of the suspects. The investigations were helped by evidence retrieved by the FBI. After the scandal was published in Honduran media, Chimirri sued the journalists. Renato Alvarez was sentenced to 2 years and 8 months in prison.\n\nZelaya allegedly earmarked 5.4 million lempiras on mobilizing supporters of the country's accession to the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas (ALBA), an organization founded by Hugo Chávez. The pro-ALBA \"demonstration\" took place on August 25, 2008. The beneficiaries included 38 individuals, union leaders, unions, and owners transport companies.\n\nThe constitution of Honduras requires that the President files the budget by September 15. Zelaya refused. He claimed that it was impossible to come up with numbers. Julio Raudales, Zelaya’s former deputy minister, said the budgetary black hole cost the country some $400 million in funding. Cardinal Rodríguez criticized Zelaya for using public money to promote his plans instead of spending it on the poor. He said \"We were good friends. But he changed drastically... It was Chávez.\"\n\nOn September 30, 2008 Zelaya issued emergency executive decree 46-A-2208, which authorized transfer of 30 million lempiras of public money to advertising of his fourth ballot box. Soon after he issued another emergency executive decree which is identical except that the money is transferred to his office.\nAuditors later found documentation of 29 checks and total 29,995,887.62 lempiras. The expenses weren't well documented.The supposed advertisers paid no sales tax.\nOn May 30, 2009, auditors found that Zelaya had directly spent more than 2 billion lempiras without competitive bidding.\n\nOn June 24, Enrique Flores Lanza, Zelaya's chief of staff, withdrew millions of dollars from the Central Bank of Honduras. The money was taken \"to help the Ministry of the Presidency\" and transported by car to Lanza's office. The suspected theft was captured by surveillance cameras.\n\n"}
{"id": "53341844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53341844", "title": "Golus nationalism", "text": "Golus nationalism\n\nGolus nationalism (Yiddish: גלות נאַציאָנאַליזם \"Golus natsionalizm\" after golus), or Diaspora Nationalism, is a national movement of the Jewish people that argued for furthering Jewish national and cultural life in the large Jewish centers throughout the world, while at the same time seeking recognition for a Jewish national identity from world powers.\n\nGolus Nationalism was conceived by Nathan Birnbaum, the Austrian philosopher who had given Zionism its name. Although Birnbaum was an early theorist of Zionism and participated in the First Zionist Congress (1897), he broke with the movement shortly after. Birnbaum began to develop a theory of pan-Judaism (\"Alljudentum\"), which embraced Jewish life in the Diaspora.\n\nBirnbaum was opposed to the idea that Jewish assimilation was inevitable, inspired by the Jews of Eastern Europe, who had retained Yiddish as a language, had a robust folk culture, and banded together in recognizably distinct communities.\n\nBirnbaum made several attempts to have a Jewish national identity recognized by state powers. In 1907, he unsuccessfully advocated for Yiddish to be included as a Jewish national language in the Austro-Hungarian census. The following year, he ran a popular but fruitless campaign for a seat in Parliament. In 1910, he again attempted to have Yiddish recognized. Birnbaum felt that if he could get state recognition for elements of Jewish nationhood, he could petition for Jews to have shared control of a province in Galicia. He was encouraged by the fact that the Austro-Hungarian Empire was offering the possibility of autonomous regions to ethnic groups and nationalities.\n\nBirnbaum also propagandized on behalf of Yiddish as a language, coining the words \"Yiddishism\" and \"Yiddishist.\" He organized Yiddish events in Vienna, translate Yiddish authors into German, and in 1905 established a student organization for the furtherance of the language called \"Yidishe Kultur\". In 1908, he organized an international conference on the Yiddish language in Czernowitz, in which different Jewish factions squared off as to whether Yiddish should be declared the official language of Jewish nationalism or instead one of several Jewish languages.\n\nGolus nationalism prefigured a variety of attempts to reconcile Jewish identity with the experience of diaspora. Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan would wrestle with similar themes, developing a theory that Judaism should be seen as a civilization, rather than a religion, and founding Reconstructionist Judaism on this theory. Yiddishist Abraham Golomb wrote frequently about maintaining a Jewish identity in the Diaspora, and the centrality of Yiddish and Hebrew in this pursuit.\n"}
{"id": "350900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350900", "title": "Gothi", "text": "Gothi\n\nA goði or gothi (plural goðar) is an Old Norse term for a chieftain-priest. Gyðja is the female form. The title is primarily known from medieval Iceland where it lived on as a secular political title after Christianization.\n\nDuring the pagan era, the \"goði\" was a local chieftain who also functioned as a heathen priest. After the Settlement in Iceland, the \"hofgoði\" was a temple priest; this was usually a wealthy and respected man in his district, for he had to maintain the communal hall or \"hof\" in which community religious observances and feasts were held. The area over which a \"goði\" had leadership was termed a \"goðorð\". Over time, and especially after 1000, when the Christian conversion occurred in Iceland, the term \"goði\" lost its sacred connotations and came to mean simply \"chieftain\".\n\nThe name appears in Wulfila's Gothic language translation of the Bible as \"gudja\" for \"priest\", but in Old Norse it is only the feminine form \"gyðja\" that perfectly corresponds to the Gothic form. The corresponding masculine Old Norse form would have been an unattested *\"gyði\".\n\nIn Scandinavia there are surviving early attestations in the Proto-Norse form \"gudija\" from the Norwegian Nordhuglo runestone (Rundata N KJ65 U), and in the later Old Norse form \"goði\" from two Danish runestones, the Glavendrup stone (DR 209) and the Helnæs Runestone (DR 190). There are also a few placenames, such as \"Gudby\" in Södermanland, Sweden, that probably retain the name.\n\nOtherwise, there are no further surviving attestations except from Iceland where the \"goðar\" would be of historical significance.\n\nThe term \"goði\" is often used as a priestly title by modern adherents of various denominations of Germanic Neopaganism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37072168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37072168", "title": "Government district", "text": "Government district\n\nA government district or government area is any part of a city or town in which the primary land use by state institutions (national legislature, official residencess, foreign ministry headquarters, and so on), as opposed to a residential neighbourhood, commercial district and industrial zone, or other types of neighborhoods. In some cities, authorities use planning or zoning laws to define the boundaries of government districts.\n\nIn most national and many sub-national (state, provincial, etc.) capital cities there are distinct government districts centred on the national legislature. However, non-capitals may also have an administrative district centered on city hall or a government office building.\n\nIn the national capital, Ottawa, the main government district, centered on Parliament Hill is within Downtown Ottawa (part of Centretown), but could be extended to include small parts of Lower Town and Sandy Hill if the prime minister's and government general's residences are included, as well as the district of Hull, Quebec in the neighboring city of Gatineau where several ministries are headquartered. These areas are all linked by the ceremonial route known as \"Confederation Boulevard\".\n\nIn Quebec City, the provincial capital of Quebec, the \"Complexe du Parlement\" (including the Parliament Building) and several other government buildings, are located within the neighborhood of Parliament Hill. This is within the districts of Vieux-Québec—Cap-Blanc—colline Parlementaire and Saint-Jean-Baptiste, which are themselves in the borough of La Cité-Limoilou.\n\nToronto, Ontario's government district is centered on Queen's Park home of the provincial parliament.\n\nEdmonton Alberta's main government district, is centered on Capital Boulevard (107 Street south of Jasper Avenue) which is home to the Alberta Legislature Building and the Federal Public Building. However Edmonton City Hall and Canada Place anchor another government cluster to the east.\n\n\n\n\nNeighborhoods by type"}
{"id": "14441413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14441413", "title": "Government platform", "text": "Government platform\n\nA government platform is a political platform of a government. A new government, when entering office, lists their objectives to be accomplished while in office.\n\nGovernment platforms are especially important in coalition governments, where several parties with possibly conflicting political platforms agree on a compromise. The distinction between a party platform and a government platform may be blurred in countries where single parties often form governments, but the distinction is still significant. \n\n"}
{"id": "62450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62450", "title": "Independence", "text": "Independence\n\nIndependence is a condition of a nation, country, or state in which its residents and population, or some portion thereof, exercise self-government, and usually sovereignty, over the territory. The opposite of independence is the status of a dependent territory.\n\nWhether the attainment of independence is different from revolution has long been contested, and has often been debated over the question of violence as legitimate means to achieving sovereignty. While some revolutions seek and achieve national independence, others aim only to redistribute power with or without an element of emancipation, such as in democratization \"within\" a state, which as such may remain unaltered. The Haitian Revolution, for example, began as a colony-wide slave uprising that was originally content with the pro-abolitionist French Republic, only to turn into a war into of independence when Napoleon tried to re-install slavery. In contrast, the American Revolutionary War was intended to achieve independence from the beginning. Causes for a country or province wishing to seek independence are many, but most can be summed up as a feeling of inequality compared to the dominant power. The means can extend from peaceful demonstrations, like in the case of India(1947), to a violent war like in the case of Algeria(1954).\n\n\"Autonomy\" refers to a kind of independence which has been granted by an overseeing authority that itself still retains ultimate authority over that territory (see Devolution). A protectorate refers to an autonomous region that depends upon a larger government for its protection as an autonomous region.\n\nSometimes, a state wishing to achieve independence from a dominating power will issue a declaration of independence; the earliest surviving example is Scotland's Declaration of Arbroath in 1320, with the most recent example being Azawad's declaration of independence in 2012. Declaring independence and attaining it however, are quite different. A well-known successful example is the U.S. Declaration of Independence issued in 1776. The dates of established independence (or, less commonly, the commencement of revolution), are typically celebrated as a national holiday known as an independence day.\n\nHistorically, there have been three major periods of declaring independence:\n\n"}
{"id": "10789496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10789496", "title": "Istjude", "text": "Istjude\n\nIstjude, in the Nazi jargon, was a person with at least three ethnic Jewish grandparents. \n\n\"Istjuden\" were legally equated with the so-called \"Geltungsjuden\" (\"gelten\" = to be considered as, \"ist\" = is).\n"}
{"id": "955626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=955626", "title": "List of historical separatist movements", "text": "List of historical separatist movements\n\nThis is a list of historical separatist movements around the world. Separatism includes autonomism and secessionism. Most separatist movements do not succeed in their goal, therefore only notable ones are listed here; however, not all listed here succeeded in their goal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSri Lankan Tamil people\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(gained independence from Ottoman Empire after the Greek War of Independence) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5998395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5998395", "title": "List of political movements named after dates", "text": "List of political movements named after dates\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23522969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23522969", "title": "Mathematical elimination", "text": "Mathematical elimination\n\nThe terms \"mathematical elimination\" and \"mathematically eliminated\" mean to be excluded in a decision, based on numerical counts, due to insufficient total numbers, even if all remaining events were 100% in favor. The excluded outcome is considered to be eliminated due to the mathematical probability being zero (0%).\n\nThe term is used in elections when a candidate lacks sufficient votes to win, even if that candidate could garner all remaining votes. In sports, the term \"mathematically eliminated\"\n\nrefers to situations where there are not enough future games or competitive events remaining to be played to avoid defeat, even if all future events were won.\n\nThe term \"mathematically eliminated\" has been in use for more than 100 years,\nalthough the meaning has varied. In a 1904 article, in the \"American Journal of Psychology\", Volume XV, errors of measurement were described as quantifiable to be \"mathematically eliminated\" from the analysis of the remaining data.\n"}
{"id": "3609484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609484", "title": "Mobutism", "text": "Mobutism\n\nMobutism, also spelled Mobutuism, was an official party ideology of the Popular Movement of the Revolution (\"Mouvement Populaire de la Revolution\", MPR) as well as the official state ideology in Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) during the latter half of the 20th century. Mobutism encompassed and glorified the thoughts, visions, and policies of Zairian president and self-proclaimed \"Father of the Nation,\" Mobutu Sese Seko. The ideology included such major Mobutu initiatives as \"Zairianization.\"\n\nThe Popular Movement of the Revolution (MPR) was entrenched as the single legal political party in a one-party state in Zaire. Originally Mobutu designed the constitution of Zaire to have a figurehead opposition party but later claimed that the constitution only recommended but did not demand this and thus a one-party state was created and all other political parties were banned afterwards in 1966. The ideology laid down in the Manifesto of N'sele, incorporated \"nationalism,\" \"revolution,\" and \"authenticity.\" Revolution was described as a \"truly national revolution, essentially pragmatic,\" which called for \"the repudiation of both capitalism and communism,\" favoured \"national revolution.\" The Manifesto of N'sele also laid out the intentions of the government which included expansion of the national government's authority, a program committed to upgrading labour standards, having the country gain economic independence, and the creation of an \"authentic nationalism\" in Zaire.\n\nMobutu led the MPR and Zaire as a dictator, and denounced the idea of multiple leaders and political parties in the country saying: \"In our African tradition there are never two chiefs….That is why we Congolese, in the desire to conform to the traditions of our continent, have resolved to group all the energies of the citizens of our country under the banner of a single national party.\"\n\nMobutu and the MPR were presented in propaganda as being attributed to the divine and sought to replace Christianity in Zaire with a religious devotion to Mobutu and the MPR with interior minister Engulu Baanga Mpongo once saying to supporters of the MPR: \"God has sent a great prophet, our prestigious Guide Mobutu. This prophet is our liberator, our Messiah. Our Church is the MPR. Its chief is Mobutu. We respect him like one respects a Pope. Our gospel is Mobutuism. That is why the crucifixes must be replaced by the image of our Messiah.\"\n\nMobutu and the MPR pursued a national cultural revival program in Zaire called \"Authenticité\" beginning in 1967 which sought to purge colonial European culture from Zaire and restore local culture, such as by forbidding Christian names and culture while promoting local African names and culture as well as forbidding western suits and creating a state-authorized uniform called the \"abacost\".\n\nThe ideology survives today in such organizations as Nzanga Mobutu's Union of Mobutuist Democrats.\n\n"}
{"id": "2210046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2210046", "title": "Neo-Bonapartism", "text": "Neo-Bonapartism\n\nNeo-Bonapartism or neo-Bounapartism is a political ideology focusing around a strong leader, who is often a hero to the people, and upholds - or at least seems to uphold - the ideals of the people. With Bonapartism specifically referring to the case of Napoleon I of France, the term neo-Bonapartism first came to use with the rise of Louis Napoleon III. However, this is not a true example of what neo-Bonapartism has come to symbolize. M. Raoul Duval is given as example in contemporary France in a 1901 book. Neo-Bonapartism can also be used to specifically refer to movements after Napoleon I, but it need not be confined to such. The best example of Bonapartism may be Roman dictators from the Republican Period, like Julius Caesar, who attempted to quash the power of the Senate and advance the rights and welfare of the people.\n\nNeo-Bonapartist philosophy is characterized by the leader. It is believed that a strong and capable leader is necessary for the ideals the Bonapartists support - be they left or right, moderate or radical. The leader is usually a great hero of the people - in most historical cases being military in nature - who brings about reforms in their name. This philosophy by itself has never been popular, and thus is almost always used in conjunction with others. \n\nNeo-Bonapartists are often similar to enlightened despots, who use their absolute power to advance liberalism, freedoms, and social welfare, though in many cases of supposed neo-Bonapartism the exact opposite is achieved; giving rise to bastard movements more like traditional dictatorships. Nationalism is also often a component of neo-Bonapartism, though not a necessary one.\n"}
{"id": "29555161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29555161", "title": "Open Philanthropy", "text": "Open Philanthropy\n\nOpen Philanthropy is the doctrine which holds that the programming, operations, governance, effectiveness, and efficiency of nonprofit organizations should be open and visible by the public, donors, and especially, stakeholders in those nonprofits.\n\nAmong recent developments is the theory of open source governance which advocates the application of the philosophies of the free software movement to democratic principles to enable interested citizens to get more directly involved in the legislative process.\n\nThe Effective altruism movement is a prominent proponent of analyzing, in a rubric with other criteria, the transparency of nonprofit organizations. The Open Philanthropy Project - a joint collaboration between GiveWell, a charity navigator, and Good Ventures, co-founded by a Facebook co-founder - \"envision a world in which philanthropists increasingly document and share their research, reasoning, results and mistakes to help each other learn more quickly and serve the world more effectively.\"\n\nSince 2007 a variety of bloggers and writers, including Mark Surman, have proposed the concept of \"Open Philanthropy\". Few of these early efforts seemed to get much traction with stakeholders or nonprofit leaders. Then early in 2010, Lucy Bernholz again surfaced the concept for how nonprofits should follow the conventions of Open Source and Open Government initiatives.\n\nThe guiding principles of compliant organizations include:\n\nThe plans, budgets, expenses, and programming of an organization shall be designed to ensure organizational focus on the mission of the organization. The majority of funds spent are in support of programs and services. Administrative and fundraising costs are kept within reasonable limits with a goal of more than 75 percent of funds allocated to program and outreach expenses.\n\nOrganizations shall have a documented methodology to measure and accurately report programmatic achievements, and where appropriate, the actual cost per beneficiary for program services. Additionally, these efforts shall account, and if necessary discount, for program achievements that are accomplished through and with other organizations. Program costs shall be managed to be as reasonable as possible, without sacrificing services, quality, and long-term sustainability of services.\n\nProgramming is designed to be both sustainable and scalable using models other organizations can emulate and adopt or proving new concepts. Fundraising efforts match anticipated programming needs. Program efforts demonstrate high numbers of beneficiaries served with programs, which are sustainable for years and decades. Post-program monitoring and research designed to test impact, value, sustainability, and scalability of solutions. Measures of success are meaningful, accurate, and complete.\n\nOrganization has documented strategic, fiscal, and annual plans and processes that are shared with appropriate stakeholders. Ongoing management review of key deliverables with risks identified and disaggregated by type. Mitigation strategies and processes incorporate controls, accountabilities, monitoring, and reporting. There shall be a clear organizational tone regarding ethical behavior in all the activities of the organization. Proactively explain actions and material decisions to stakeholders, including government, donors, beneficiaries, and the public at large.\n\nAs the organization develops, implements, tests, and then refines procedures and processes, it shares those lessons in a non-competitive fashion with other organizations that might benefit from past successes. In regard to content, the organization will strive to collect, process, and share media assets such as video, still imagery, and audio in a manner that allows for release under creative commons, no commercial use, with attribution licensing terms. Where permissible and valuable, make data interoperable and release intellectual property under open source creative commons licensing terms.\n\nOrganizations shall publish and make conveniently available important data about the organization, its staffing, resources, and governance. Reporting shall be in a format convenient for stakeholders and can include printed and digital reports, audio programming or real-time online systems. All reports shall be published on a timely basis and in particular financial data, including filed tax returns, shall be publicly available within 30 days of necessary audits. Organizations shall use best efforts to ensure the accuracy and timeliness of information released and shall promptly correct inaccuracies or incorrect materials.\n\nWithin the scope of Open Philanthropy there are practical limitations to the extent all materials shall be open and visible by the public. Materials whose release would be prohibited by law, or that may compromise the corporate or personal safety of others are exempt. Those items with contractual privacy or licensing arrangements do not require disclosure. Organizations shall not disclose information that compromises the integrity of others, and/or organizational processes and policies. Only to the extent as explicitly permitted, donor information shall be exempt. In compliance with trademark law, trade names and marks are exempt from reuse without attribution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1217056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1217056", "title": "Organicism", "text": "Organicism\n\nOrganicism is the philosophical perspective which views the universe and its parts as organic wholes and – either by analogy or literally – as living organisms. It can be synonymous with holism. Organicism is an important tradition within the history of natural philosophy where it has remained as a vital current alongside reductionism and mechanism, the approaches that have dominated science since the seventeenth century. Plato is among the earliest philosophers to have regarded the universe as an intelligent living being (see \"Timaeus\"). Organicism flourished for a period during the era of German romanticism during which time the new science of biology was first defined by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Within modern-day biological sciences organicism is the approach that stresses the organization (particularly the self-organizing properties), rather than the composition, of organisms. John Scott Haldane was the first biologist to use the term to describe his philosophical views in 1917, after which it was followed by certain other biologists in the 20th century.\n\nOrganicism as a doctrine rejects mechanism and reductionism (doctrines that claim that the smallest parts by themselves explain the behavior of larger organized systems of which they are a part). However, organicism also rejects vitalism, the doctrine that there is a vital force different from physical forces that accounts for living things. As Capra puts it, both schools, organicism and vitalism, were born from the quest for getting rid of the Cartesian picture of reality, a view that has been claimed to be the most destructive paradigm nowadays, from science to politics.\nA number of biologists in the early to mid-twentieth century embraced organicism. They wished to reject earlier vitalisms but to stress that whole organism biology was not fully explainable by atomic mechanism. The larger organization of an organic system has features that must be taken into account to explain its behavior.\n\nGilbert and Sarkar distinguish organicism from holism to avoid what they see as the vitalistic or spiritualistic connotations of holism. Dusek notes that holism contains a continuum of degrees of the top-down control of organization, ranging from monism (the doctrine that the only complete object is the whole universe, or that there is only one entity, the universe) to organicism, which allows relatively more independence of the parts from the whole, despite the whole being more than the sum of the parts, and/or the whole exerting some control on the behavior of the parts.\n\nStill more independence is present in relational holism. This doctrine does not assert top-down control of the whole over its parts, but does claim that the relations of the parts are essential to explanation of behavior of the system. Aristotle and early modern philosophers and scientists tended to describe reality as made of substances and their qualities, and to neglect relations. Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz showed the bizarre conclusions to which a doctrine of the non-existence of relations led. Twentieth century philosophy has been characterized by the introduction of and emphasis on the importance of relations, whether in symbolic logic, in phenomenology, or in metaphysics.\n\nWilliam Wimsatt has suggested that the number of terms in the relations considered distinguishes reductionism from holism. Reductionistic explanations claim that two or at most three term relations are sufficient to account for the system's behavior. At the other extreme the system could be considered as a single ten to the twenty-sixth term relation, for instance.\n\nOrganicism has some intellectually and politically controversial or suspect associations. \"Holism,\" the doctrine that the whole is more than the sum of its parts, often used synonymously with organicism, or as a broader category under which organicism falls, has been co-opted in recent decades by \"holistic medicine\" and by New Age Thought. German Nazism appealed to organicist and holistic doctrines, discrediting for many in retrospect, the original organicist doctrines. (See Anne Harrington). Soviet Dialectical Materialism also made appeals to an holistic and organicist approach stemming from Hegel via Karl Marx's co-worker Friedrich Engels, again giving a controversial political association to organicism.\n\nOrganicism' has also been used to characterize notions put forth by various late 19th-century social scientists who considered human society to be analogous to an organism, and individual humans to be analogous to the cells of an organism. This sort of organicist sociology was articulated by Alfred Espinas, Paul von Lilienfeld, Jacques Novicow, Albert Schäffle, Herbert Spencer, and René Worms, among others.\n\nThomas Hobbes arguably put forward a form of organicism. In the \"Leviathan\", he argued that the state is like a secular God whose constituents (individual people) make up a larger organism.\n\nIn breathing entities, cells – i.e., the smallest unit of life – were first observed in the 17th century, when the multifaceted equipment microscope was conceived. Before that period, the individual organisms were studied as a whole in a field known as organismic biology; that area of research remains an important component of the biological sciences. Further, as Capra puts it, during the early 1900s, the quantum researchers struggled with the same paradigm shift from \"the parts to the whole\" that culminated into the scholars of organismic biology.\n\nIn biology organicism considers that the observable structures of life, its overall form and the properties and characteristics of its component parts are a result of the reciprocal play of all the components on each other.\nExamples of 20th century biologists who were organicists are Ross Harrison, Paul Weiss, and Joseph Needham. Donna Haraway discusses them in her first book \"Crystals, Fabrics, and Fields\". John Scott Haldane (father of J. B. S. Haldane), William Emerson Ritter, Edward Stuart Russell, Joseph Henry Woodger, Ludwig von Bertalanffy, and Ralph Stayner Lillie are other early twentieth century organicists. Robert Rosen, founder of \"Relational Biology\" provided a comprehensive mathematical and category-theoretic treatment of irreducible causal relations he believed to be responsible for life.\n\nIn the early 1930s Joseph Henry Woodger and Joseph Needham, together with Conrad Hal Waddington, John Desmond Bernal, Dorothy Needham, and Dorothy Wrinch, formed the Theoretical Biology Club, to promote the organicist approach to biology. The club was in opposition to mechanism, reductionism and the gene-centric view of evolution. Most of the members were influenced by the philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead. The club disbanded as the Rockefeller Foundation refused to fund their investigations.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49214523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49214523", "title": "Outline of government", "text": "Outline of government\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to government:\n\nGovernment – \n\nGovernment - is a general term which can be used to refer to public bodies organizing the political life of the society. Government can also refer to the collective head of the executive branch of power in a polity.\n\nPublic policies -\nLegislative power -\n\nExecutive power -\n\nJudicial power -\n\nConstitution -\n\nFive characteristics of a state\n\nEvolutionary Theory -\n\nSocial Contract Theory -\n\nDivine Theory -\n\nMeritocracy -\n\nForm a More Perfect Union -\n\nEstablish Justice -\n\nInsure Domestic Tranquility -\n\nProvide for the Common Defense -\n\nPromote the General Welfare -\n\nSecure the Blessings of Liberty -\n\nHistory of government\n\nOrdered government\n\nLimited government\n\nRepresentative government\n\nMagna Carta\n\nPetition of Right\n\nEnglish Bill of Rights\n\nCharter\n\nRoyal Colonies - New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia\nProprietary colonies - Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware\nCharter colonies - Connecticut and Rhode Island\n\nNew England Confederation\n\nAlbany Plan of Union\n\nDelegate\n\nBoycott\n\nRepeal\n\nPopular sovereignty\n\nDeclaration of Independence\n\nArticles of Confederation\n\nRatification\n\nPresiding Officer\n\nFramers of the Constitution -\n\nVirginia Plan -\n\nNew Jersey Plan -\n\nConnecticut Compromise -\n\nThree-Fifths Compromise -\n\nSlave Trade Compromise -\n\nFederalists -\n\nAnti-Federalists -\n\nQuorum -\n\nDemocracy -\n\nDictatorship -\n\nUnitary government -\n\nFederal government -\n\nConfederate government (Confederation) -\n\nPresidential government -\n\nParliamentary government -\n\nPopular sovereignty \nLimited government\nHuman equality\n\nFree enterprise system -\n\nLaw of supply and demand -\n\nMixed economy -\n\nPreamble\n\nArticles\n\nPopular Sovereignty\n\nLimited Government\nSeparation of powers\n\nChecks and balances\nJudicial review\nFederalism\n\nChambers\n\nParliament\nParliamentary procedure\nTypes\n\nLegislator -\n\nCommittee member -\n\nTrustee -\n\nDelegate -\n\nPartisan -\n\nPolitico -\n\nSenator -\n\nMoney\n\nMoney\n"}
{"id": "29678048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29678048", "title": "Philosophy of human rights", "text": "Philosophy of human rights\n\nThe philosophy of human rights attempts to examine the underlying basis of the concept of human rights and critically looks at its content and justification. Several theoretical approaches have been advanced to explain how and why the concept of human rights developed.\n\nOne of the oldest Western philosophies on human rights is that they are a product of a natural law, stemming from different philosophical or religious grounds. Other theories hold that human rights codify moral behavior which is a human social product developed by a process of biological and social evolution (associated with Hume). Human rights are also described as a sociological pattern of rule setting (as in the sociological theory of law and the work of Weber). These approaches include the notion that individuals in a society accept rules from legitimate authority in exchange for security and economic advantage (as in Rawls) – a social contract. The two theories that dominate contemporary human rights discussion are the interest theory and the will theory. Interest theory argues that the principal function of human rights is to protect and promote certain essential human interests, while will theory attempts to establish the validity of human rights based on the unique human capacity for freedom.\n\nNatural law theories base human rights on a \"natural\" moral, religious or even biological order that is independent of transitory human laws or traditions.\n\nSocrates and his philosophic heirs, Plato and Aristotle, posited the existence of natural justice or natural right (δίκαιον φυσικόν \"dikaion physikon\"; Latin \"ius naturale\"). Of these, Aristotle is often said to be the father of natural law, although evidence for this is due largely to the interpretations of his work by Thomas Aquinas.\n\nThe development of this tradition of natural justice into one of natural law is usually attributed to the Stoics.\n\nSome of the early Church Fathers sought to incorporate the until then pagan concept of natural law into Christianity. Natural law theories have featured greatly in the philosophies of Thomas Aquinas, Francisco Suárez, Richard Hooker, Thomas Hobbes, Hugo Grotius, Samuel von Pufendorf, and John Locke.\n\nIn the 16th century, asked by the Spanish monarchs to investigate the legitimacy of claims to land dominion by the \"indios\" of Latin America, Francisco de Vitoria expounded a theory of natural rights, especially in his famous \"Relectio de Indis\".\n\nIn the 17th century Thomas Hobbes founded a contractualist theory of legal positivism beginning from the principle that man in the state of nature, which is to say without a \"commonwealth\" (a state) is in a state of constant war one with the other and thus in fear of his life and possessions (there being no property nor right without a sovereign to define it). Hobbes asserted natural law as how a rational human, seeking to survive and prosper, would act; the first principle of natural law being to seek peace, in which is self-preservation. Natural law (which Hobbes accepted was a misnomer, there being no law without a commonwealth) was discovered by considering humankind's natural interests, whereas previous philosophers had said that natural rights were discovered by considering the natural law. In Hobbes' opinion, the only way natural law could prevail was for human beings to agree to create a commonwealth by submitting to the command of a sovereign, whether an individual or an assembly of individuals. In this lay the foundations of the theory of a social contract between the governed and the governor.\n\nHugo Grotius based his philosophy of international law on natural law. He wrote that \"even the will of an omnipotent being cannot change or abrogate\" natural law, which \"would maintain its objective validity even if we should assume the impossible, that there is no God or that he does not care for human affairs.\" (\"De iure belli ac pacis\", Prolegomeni XI). This is the famous argument \"etiamsi daremus\" (\"non esse Deum\"), that made natural law no longer dependent on theology.\n\nJohn Locke incorporated natural law into many of his theories and philosophy, especially in \"Two Treatises of Government\". Locke turned Hobbes' prescription around, saying that if the ruler went against natural law and failed to protect \"life, liberty, and property,\" people could justifiably overthrow the existing state and create a new one.\n\nThe Belgian philosopher of law Frank Van Dun is one among those who are elaborating a secular conception of natural law in the liberal tradition. There are also emerging and secular forms of natural law theory that define human rights as derivative of the notion of universal human dignity.\n\n\"Dignity\" is a key term for the discussion of human rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights does not justify its claims on any philosophical basis, but rather it simply appeals to human dignity.\n\nKarl Rahner discusses human dignity as it relates to freedom. Specifically, his ideas of freedom relate to human rights as an appeal to the freedom to communicate with the divine. As embodied individuals who can have this freedom and dignity threatened by external forces, the protection of this dignity takes on an appeal to protect human rights.\n\nThe term \"human rights\" has replaced the term \"natural rights\" in popularity, because the rights are less and less frequently seen as requiring natural law for their existence. For some, the debate on human rights remains thus a debate around the correct interpretation of Natural Law, and human rights themselves a positive, but reductionist, expression thereof\n\nThe English philosopher Thomas Hobbes suggested the existence of a hypothetical \"social contract\" where a group of free individuals agree for the sake of preservation to form institutions to govern them. They give up their natural complete liberty in exchange for protection from the Sovereign. This led to John Locke's theory that a failure of the government to secure rights is a failure which justifies the removal of the government, and was mirrored in later postulation by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his \"Du Contrat Social\" (The Social Contract).\n\nInternational equity expert Paul Finn has echoed this view:\n\nThe relationship between government and the governed in countries which follow the English law tradition is a fiduciary one. In equity law, a politician's fiduciary obligations are not only the duties of good faith and loyalty, but also include duties of skill and competence in managing a country and its people. Originating from within the Courts of Equity, the fiduciary concept exists to prevent those holding positions of power from abusing their authority. The fiduciary relationship between government and the governed arises from the governments ability to control people with the exercise of its power. In effect, if a government has the power to abolish any rights, it is equally burdened with the fiduciary duty to protect such an interest because it would benefit from the exercise of its own discretion to extinguish rights which it alone had the power to dispose of.\n\nThe Golden Rule, or the \"ethic of reciprocity\" states that one must do unto others as one would be treated themselves; the principle being that reciprocal recognition and respect of rights ensures that one's own rights will be protected. This principle can be found in all the world's major religions in only slightly differing forms, and was enshrined in the \"Declaration Toward a Global Ethic\" by the Parliament of the World's Religions in 1993.\n\nSoviet concept of human rights was different from conceptions prevalent in the West. According to Western legal theory, \"it is the individual who is the beneficiary of human rights which are to be asserted \"against\" the government\", whereas Soviet law declared that state is the source of human rights. Therefore, Soviet legal system regarded law as an arm of politics and courts as agencies of the government. Extensive extra-judiciary powers were given to the Soviet secret police agencies. The regime abolished Western rule of law, civil liberties, protection of law and guarantees of property. According to Vladimir Lenin, the purpose of socialist courts was \"not to eliminate terror ... but to substantiate it and legitimize in principle\".\n\nCrime was determined not as the infraction of law, but as any action which could threaten the Soviet state and society. For example, a desire to make a profit could be interpreted as a counter-revolutionary activity punishable by death. The liquidation and deportation of millions peasants in 1928–31 was carried out within the terms of Soviet Civil Code. Some Soviet legal scholars even asserted that \"criminal repression\" may be applied in the absence of guilt.\". Martin Latsis, chief of the Ukrainian Cheka explained: \"Do not look in the file of incriminating evidence to see whether or not the accused rose up against the Soviets with arms or words. Ask him instead to which class he belongs, what is his background, his education, his profession. These are the questions that will determine the fate of the accused. That is the meaning and essence of the Red Terror.\"\n\nThe purpose of public trials was \"not to demonstrate the existence or absence of a crime – that was predetermined by the appropriate party authorities – but to provide yet another forum for political agitation and propaganda for the instruction of the citizenry (see Moscow Trials for example). Defense lawyers, who had to be party members, were required to take their client's guilt for granted...\"\n\nThe philosopher John Finnis argues that human rights are justifiable on the grounds of their instrumental value in creating the necessary conditions for human well-being. Interest theories highlight the duty to respect the rights of other individuals on grounds of self-interest:\n\nThe biological theory considers the comparative reproductive advantage of human social behavior based on empathy and altruism in the context of natural selection.\nHuman security is an emerging school of thought which challenges the traditional, state-based conception of security and argues that a people-focused approach to security is more appropriate in the modern interdependent world and would be more effective in advancing the security of individuals and societies across the globe.\n\n\nAccording to the recommendation of human rights scholar Barrister Dr Mohammed Yeasin Khan LLB Honours, LLM, PhD, PGDL, Barrister-at-Law (Lincoln’s Inn), UK: ‘Right’ being synonymous of ‘legal’ and antonymous of both ‘wrong’ and ‘illegal’, every ‘right’ of any human person is ipso facto a ‘legal right’ which deserves protection of law and legal remedy irrespective of having been written into the law, constitution or otherwise in any country.\n\n\nAccording to Barrister Dr Mohammed Yeasin Khan: The only way ‘(a) to make the world terrorism and war free and also free from hunger, poverty, discrimination and exploitation; (b) to establish rule of law and economic, political and social justice; and (c) to confirm freedom of man, peace and development worldwide’ is protection and promotion human rights as ‘Ipso Facto Legal Rights’ and the unity of the world community in one and single theory of ‘man for man’ correlative, interdependent and ‘one to one-cum-one for other’ approach, namely, the ‘Man for Man Theory’ approach of world peace.\n\nThe idea of human rights is not without its critics. Jeremy Bentham, Edmund Burke, Friedrich Nietzsche and Karl Marx are examples of historical philosophers who criticised the notion of natural rights. Alasdair MacIntyre is a leading contemporary critic of human rights. His criticisms are discussed below.\n\nEdmund Burke was an 18th-century philosopher, political theorist and statesman largely associated with the school of conservatism. His views on natural rights are best articulated in \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\", which directly attacked the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen\" (1789) and its authors.\n\nA great deal of Burke’s uneasiness of the \"Declaration\" lies in the drafter’s abandonment of the existing establishment. For Burke, constitutional legitimacy was derived not from the Rousseauian doctrine of general will, but from a form of inherited wisdom. He thought that it was arrogant and limiting for the drafters of the \"Declaration\" to cast aside traditional notions that had stood the test of time. Although it may seem to the drafters that they had abandoned the shackles of tradition, for Burke, they had limited their findings to the narrow minded conception of one person or group. This is the grounding from which Burke’s attack of the \"Declaration\" is based.\n\nBurke did not deny the existence of natural rights; rather he thought that the a priori reasoning adopted by the drafters produced notions that were too abstract to have application within the framework of society. In stating that “the pretended right of these theorists are all extremes; and in a proportion as they are metaphysically true, they are morally and politically false”, Burke identified that abstract rights are meaningless without a societal framework:\n\nIn contrast to Locke, Burke did not believe the purpose of government was to protect pre-existing natural rights; he believed “the primitive rights of man undergo such a variety of refractions and reflections, that it becomes absurd to talk of them as if they continued in the simplicity of their original direction.” For Burke it was the government, as a result of long social evolution, that transformed the meaningless natural rights into the practical advantaged afforded to citizens.\n\nIt was not the rights themselves, as much as the level of abstraction and the placing of them above government which Burke found dangerous. He stated “those who pull down important ancient establishments, who wantonly destroy modes of administration, and public institutions… are the most mischievous, and therefore the wickedest of men”. For Burke politics had no simple answers, and definitely no overarching, universal maxims such as those expressed in the \"Declaration\". Rather the rights afforded to individuals were to be assessed in the context of the social framework. However, he acknowledged that the simplicity of the \"Declaration\" was attractive and feared its ability to undermine social order. Burke believed that the absolute nature of these principles of abstraction were inherently revolutionary; they were uncompromising and any derogation from the principles a reason to rise up in arms. This was a problem because;\n\nThe natural rights “Against which there can be no prescription; against these no agreements is binding” gave the revolutionaries the tools to destroy the very society that Burke believed afforded them with rights. In this way Burke thought the rights contained in the \"Declaration\" would lead to “the antagonist world of madness, discord, vice, confusion, and unavailing sorrow.”\n\nThe 18th-century Utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham criticised the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen\" in his text \"Anarchical Fallacies\". He famously asserted that the concept of natural rights was “nonsense upon stilts”. Bentham criticised the \"Declaration\" both for the language that it adopted and the theories it posited, stating; “Look to the letter, you find nonsense; look beyond the letter, you find nothing.”\n\nOne of the critiques Bentham levelled against the \"Declaration\" was its assertions of rights in the form of absolute and universal norms. He identified that absolute rights possessed by everyone equally are meaningless and undesirable. They lack meaning because if everyone has, for example, unbounded liberty, there is nothing precluding them from using that liberty to impinge on the liberty of another. In this way “human government and human laws” are required to give some bounds to rights in order for them to be realised. Even if advocates of absolute rights recognise this necessity, as the proponents of the \"Declaration\" did, Bentham argues that it is in vain. “It would be self-contradictory, because these rights are, in the same breath which their existence is declared, declared to be impresciptable; and impriscriptable… means nothing unless it excludes the interference of the laws.”\n\nIn addition to this contradiction, Bentham warned of the dangers of couching rights in absolute terms. A government that is able to protect every person’s right absolutely and equally is a utopian aspiration, but the \"Declaration\" couches it as the conditions for its legitimacy. “Against every government which fails in any degree of fulfilling these expectations, then, it is the professed object of this manifesto to excite insurrection.” Bentham does not deny that there are some laws that are morally wrong; his uneasiness is in easily justifying a revolutionary call to arms – with the violence, chaos and destruction associated with it – based on a repugnant law.\n\nOf the theoretical faults, Bentham thought that natural rights were a construction adopted to pursue the selfish aims of the drafters, of which no logical basis could be found. He acknowledged that it may be desirable to have rights, but “a reason for wishing that a certain right were established, is not that right; want is not supply; hunger is not bread.” To establish rights existed by virtue of laws enacted by a sovereign was logically sound, but to assert rights established by nature was not. “A natural right is a son that never had a father.”\n\nNot only did Bentham think that there was no logical basis for the theory of natural rights, but he believed that their individualistic approach was harmful to society.\n\nBentham thought that society was dependent upon people's ability to pursue the greater good, not just the short-term satisfaction of their own desires. The advancement of natural rights, which he saw as celebrating selfishness, was to provide the means to break down the social community that makes human life bearable.\n\nIn On the Jewish Question, Karl Marx criticized \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\" as bourgeois ideology:\nand that:\n\nThus for Marx, liberal rights and ideas of justice are premised on the idea that each of us needs protection from other human beings. Therefore, liberal rights are rights of separation, designed to protect us from such perceived threats. Freedom on such a view, is freedom from interference. What this view denies is the possibility — according to Marx, the fact — that real freedom is to be found positively in our relations with other people. It is to be found in human community, not in isolation. So insisting on a regime of rights encourages us to view each other in ways which undermine the possibility of the real freedom we may find in human emancipation.\n\nMarxist critical theorist Slavoj Žižek argued that: \"liberal attitudes towards the other are characterized both by respect for otherness, openness to it, and an obsessive fear of harassment. In short, the other is welcomed insofar as its presence is not intrusive, insofar as it is not really the other. Tolerance thus coincides with its opposite. My duty to be tolerant towards the other effectively means that I should not get too close to him or her, not intrude into his space—in short, that I should respect his intolerance towards my over-proximity. This is increasingly emerging as the central human right of advanced capitalist society: the right not to be 'harassed', that is, to be kept at a safe distance from others.\" and \"universal human rights are effectively the right of white, male property-owners to exchange freely on the market, exploit workers and women, and exert political domination.\"\n\nBritish sociologist Robert Fine claims that the key to Marx’s argument was to rebut the radicalism Bauer espoused: a radicalism that not only denied the rights of Jews but at once trashed the rights of man and citizen as such. What Marx stood for in the Jewish Question as in his earlier writings more generally was a philosophy of right. Fine believes what Marx stood against was a spiritless radicalism that revealed its inhumanity not only through its hostility to Jews but also through its hostility to the idea of right.\" Moreover, Fine argued that Marx argued that the society that gives rise to the idea of rights is the same as that which gives rise to the commodity form. They are two sides of the same medal. It is a society based on production by independent producers whose contact with each other is mediated through the exchange of products on the market. These producers are formally free to produce what and how much they wish. They are formally equal in that no producer can force others to produce against their will or expropriate their products against their will. They are self-interested in that they are all entitled to pursue their own private interests regardless of what others think or do. Their contact with other producers takes the form of free and equal exchanges in which individuals exchange their property in return for the property of another and this exchange of unneeded things in return for useful things appears to be done for the mutual benefit of each party.\n\nFine also claims that for Marx, exchange relations appear to be formed among free and equal property owners who enter a voluntary contract in pursuit of their own self-interest. Fine cites what he believes to be Marx's point about how in exchange lies the clue to all modern conceptions of freedom and equal right:\n\nFurthermore, the parties to the exchange must place themselves in relation to one another as persons whose will resides in those objects and must behave in such a way that each does not appropriate the commodity of the other and alienate his own, except through an act to which both parties consent. Marx characterised this sphere of commodity exchange as ‘a very Eden of the innate rights of man’ – the realm of Freedom, Equality, Property and\nBentham:\n\nThus according to Robert Fine, Marx's basic criticism was that within political society people were seen as co-operative, while in their economic roles they were competitive, individualistic and egoistic. In short, the theory of rights expressed the division and alienation of human beings.\n\nAlasdair MacIntyre is a Scottish philosopher who has published a number of works in a variety of philosophical fields, including political philosophy, ethics and metaphysics. MacIntyre criticises the concept of human rights in After Virtue and he famously asserts that “there are no such rights, and belief in them is one with belief in witches and in unicorns.”\n\nMacIntyre argues that every attempt at justifying the existence of human rights has failed. The assertions by 18th century philosophers that natural rights are self-evident truths, he argues, are necessarily false as there are no such things as self-evident truths. He says that the plea 20th century philosophers made to intuition show a flaw in philosophical reasoning. MacIntyre then outlines that, although Dworkin is not wrong in asserting that the inability to demonstrate a statement does not necessitate its falsity, the same argument can be applied in relation to witches and unicorns.\n\nMacIntyre made this critique of human rights in the context of a wider argument about the failure of the Enlightenment to produce a coherent moral system. Philosophers of the enlightenment sought to cast aside the discredited notions of hierarchy and theology as justifications for morality. Instead, MacIntyre argues, the enlightenment placed the individual as the sovereign authority to dictate what is right and wrong. However allegiances to historical notions of morality remained and philosophers sought to find a secular and rational justification for existing beliefs. The problem, MacIntyre maintains, is that theological morality was developed to overcome defects in human nature; to posit an example of the ideal. Without this notion of ‘perfect humanity’ the only remaining foundation to build a moral theory on was the foundation of imperfect human nature. For MacIntyre, the result was a collection of moral stances, each claiming to have a rational justification and each disputing the findings of the rival notions.\n\nMacIntyre believes that a number of the moral debates that occur in society can be explained as a result of this failure of the “Enlightenment Project”. Human rights are an example of a moral belief, founded in previous theological beliefs, which make the false claim of being grounded in rationality. To illustrate how the principles lead to conflict, he gives the example of abortion; in this case the right of the mother to exercise control over her body is contrasted with the deprivation of a potential child to the right to life. Although both the right to liberty and the right to life are, on their own, considered morally acceptable claims, conflict arises when we posit them against each other.\n\nHenry of Ghent articulated the theory that every person has a property interest in their own body. John Locke uses the word property in both broad and narrow senses. In a broad sense, it covers a wide range of human interests and aspirations; more narrowly, it refers to material goods. He argues that property is a natural right and it is derived from labour. In addition, property precedes government and government cannot \"dispose of the estates of the subjects arbitrarily.\" To deny valid property rights according to Locke is to deny human rights. The British philosopher had significant impacts upon the development of the Government of the UK and was central to the fundamental founding philosophy of the United States. Karl Marx later critiqued Locke's theory of property in his \"Theories of Surplus Value\", seeing the beginnings of a theory of surplus value in Locke's works. In Locke's \"Second Treatise\" he argued that the right to own private property was unlimited as long as nobody took more than they could use without allowing any of their property to go to waste and that there were enough common resources of comparable quality available for others to create their own property. Locke did believe that some would be more \"industrious and rational\" than others and would amass more property, but believed this would not cause shortages. Though this system could work before the introduction of money, Marx argued in \"Theories of Surplus Value\" that Locke's system would break down and claimed money was a contradiction of the law of nature on which private property was founded.\n"}
{"id": "5280923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5280923", "title": "Pochvennichestvo", "text": "Pochvennichestvo\n\nPochvennichestvo (; , roughly \"return to the soil\", from почва \"soil\") was a late 19th-century Russian movement tied in closely with its contemporary ideology, the Slavophile movement. \n\nBoth the Slavophiles and the \"pochvennichestvo\" movement were for the complete emancipation of serfdom, stressed a strong desire to return to the idealized past of Russia's history and opposed Europeanization. The movement also chose a complete rejection of the nihilist, classical liberal and Marxist movements of the time. Their primary focus was to change Russian society by the humbling of the self and social reform through the Russian Orthodox Church rather than the radical implementations of the intelligentsia. \n\nThe major differences between the Slavophiles and the movement were that the former detested the Westernization policies of Peter the Great, but the latter praised what were seen as the benefits of the notorious ruler but maintained a strong patriotic mentality for the Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Nationality. Another major difference was that many of the movement's leaders and supporters adopted a militantly anti-Protestant, anti-Catholic and anti-Semitic stance.\n\nThe concept had its roots in the works of the German philosopher Johann Gottfried Herder, who focused primarily on emphasizing the differences among people and regional cultures. In addition it rejected the universalism of the Enlightenment period. The most prominent Russian intellectuals who founded the ideology were Nikolay Strakhov, Nikolay Danilevsky and Konstantin Leontyev.\n\nFyodor Dostoyevsky also held such views, as he expressed in his novel \"Demons\". The ideology was later adopted by Alexander III and Nicholas II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "584318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584318", "title": "Polarization (politics)", "text": "Polarization (politics)\n\nIn politics, polarization (or polarisation) can refer to the divergence of political attitudes to ideological extremes. Almost all discussions of polarization in political science consider polarization in the context of political parties and democratic systems of government. When polarization occurs in a two-party system, like the United States, moderate voices often lose power and influence.\n\nPolitical polarization refers to the cases in which an individual's stance on a given issue, policy, or person is more likely to be strictly defined by their identification with a particular political party (e.g., Democrat or Republican) or ideology (e.g., liberal or conservative). According to DiMaggio et al. (1996), \"Polarization is both a state and a process. Polarization as a state refers to the extent to which opinions on an issue are opposed in relation to some theoretical maximum. Polarization as a process refers to the increase in such opposition over time.\" Some political scientists argue that polarization requires divergence on a broad range of issues based on a consistent set of beliefs. Others argue polarization occurs when there are stark partisan or ideological divides, even if the opinion is polarized only on a few issues.\n\nPolitical scientists typically distinguish between two types of political polarization: elite polarization and popular polarization. \"Elite polarization\" refers to the polarization of political elites, like party organizers and elected officials, while \"popular polarization\" (or mass polarization) refers to the polarization in the electorate and general public. In either context, opinions and policy positions are characterized by strict adherence to party lines. Elite polarization and popular polarization can occur at the same time or independent of each other. A central issue in the study of political polarization is investigating the relationship between elite polarization and popular polarization, particularly any causal relationships between the two.\n\nElite polarization refers to polarization in the party-in-government and party-as-organization. It occurs when party members (both elected government officials and activists within the party organization itself) grow more internally homogenous on policy positions and more divergent relative to members of other parties. Polarized political parties are internally cohesive, unified, programmatic, and ideologically distinct; they are typically found in a parliamentary system of democratic governance. \n\nIn a two-party system like the U.S., a polarized legislature has two important characteristics: first, there is little-to-no ideological overlap between members of the two parties; and second, almost all conflict over legislation and policies is split across the broad liberal/conservative ideological divide. This leads to the conflation of political parties and ideologies (i.e., Democrat and Republican become nearly perfect synonyms for liberal and conservative) and the collapse of the ideological center.\n\nThe vast majority of studies on elite polarization focus on legislative and deliberative bodies. For many years, political scientists measured polarization by examining the ratings of party members published by interest groups, but now, most analyze roll-call voting patterns to determine trends in party-line voting and party unity. Many political scientists studying American politics rely on Poole and Rosenthal's DW-NOMINATE scores, which assign a single liberal-conservative score to each congressperson, enabling comparisons of members from different Congresses. There is much more research on polarization in Congress than on polarization in the other branches of government or in state governments. Azzimonti's political polarization index is more comprehensive instead because it is based on media coverage of newspaper articles reporting political disagreement about policy in all branches of government. Recent work by Gentzkow, Shapiro, and Taddy has used the text of the Congressional Record to document differences in speech patterns between Republicans and Democrats as a measure of polarization. They find that polarization has increased dramatically since 1994.\n\nPopular polarization, or mass polarization, occurs when the electorate's attitudes towards political issues, policies, and people are starkly divided along partisan lines. Members of the electorate and general public typically become less moderate in cases of popular polarization. In the U.S., media accounts typically simplify popular polarization to a divide between red states and blue states or a \"culture war\" between values-voters and progressives. Political scientists, though, generally agree that such accounts are too simplistic and ignore the complex factors that can account for polarization. Many political scientists consider political polarization a top-down process, in which elite polarization leads to – or at least precedes – popular polarization. However, polarization among elites does not necessarily produce polarization within the electorate, and polarized electoral choices can often reflect elite polarization rather than voters' preferences.\n\nPolitical scientists studying popular polarization typically rely on data from opinion polls and election surveys. They look for trends in respondents' opinions on a given issue, their voting history, and their political ideology (conservative, liberal, moderate, etc.), and they try to relate those trends to respondents' party identification and other potentially polarizing factors (like geographic location or income bracket). Political scientists typically limit their inquiry to issues and questions that have been constant over time, in order to compare the present day to what the political climate has historically been. Oft-cited public opinion polls in the U.S. include those run by the Pew Research Center and Gallup, Inc., while political scientists also rely on more academic surveys, like the General Social Survey and the election surveys and \"feeling thermometer\" polls conducted by National Election Studies.\n\nThere are various causes of political polarization and these include political parties, redistricting, the public's political ideology, and the mass media.\n\nSome scholars argue that diverging parties has been one of the major driving forces of polarization as policy platforms have become more distant. This theory is based on recent trends in the United States Congress, where the majority party prioritizes the positions that are most aligned with its party platform and political ideology. The adoption of more ideologically distinct positions by political parties can cause polarization among both elites and the electorate. For example, after the passage of the Voting Rights Act, the number of conservative Democrats in Congress decreased, while the number of conservative Republicans increased. Within the electorate during the 1970s, Southern Democrats shifted toward the Republican Party, showing polarization among both the elites and the electorate of both main parties.\n\nPolitical scientists have shown politicians have an incentive to advance and support polarized positions. These argue that during the early 1990s, the Republican Party used polarizing tactics to become the majority party in the United States House of Representatives—which political scientists Thomas E. Mann and Norman Ornstein refer to as Newt Gingrich's \"guerrilla war.\" What political scientists have found is that moderates are less likely to run than are candidates who are in line with party doctrine, otherwise known as \"party fit.\"Other theories state politicians who cater to more extreme groups within their party tend to be more successful, helping them stay in office while simultaneously pulling their constituency toward a polar extreme. A study by Nicholson (2012) found voters are more polarized by contentious statements from leaders of the opposing party than from the leaders of their own party. As a result, political leaders may be more likely to take polarized stances.\n\nWith regards to multiparty systems, Giovanni Sartori (1966, 1976) claims the splitting of ideologies in the public constituency causes further divides within the political parties of the countries. He theorizes that the extremism of public ideological movement is the basis for the creation of highly polarized multiparty systems. Sartori named this polarizing phenomenon polarized pluralism and claimed it would lead to further polarization in many opposing directions (as opposed to in simply two directions, as in a polarized two-party system) over policy issues. Polarization in multiparty systems can also be defined along two ideological extremes, like in the case of India in the 1970s. Ideological splits within a number of India's major parties resulted in two polarized coalitions on the right and left, each consisting of multiple political parties.\n\nPolitical fund-raisers and donors can also exert significant influence and control over legislators. Party leaders are expected to be productive fund-raisers, in order to support the party's campaigns. After \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\", special interests in the U.S. were able to greatly impact elections through increased undisclosed spending, notably through Super political action committees. Some, such as \"Washington Post\" opinion writer Robert Kaiser, argued this allowed wealthy people, corporations, unions, and other groups to push the parties' policy platforms toward ideological extremes, resulting in a state of greater polarization. Other scholars, such as Raymond J. La Raja and David L. Wiltse, note that this does not necessarily hold true for mass donors to political campaigns. These scholars argue a single donor who is polarized and contributes large sums to a campaign does not seem to usually drive a politician toward political extremes.\n\nIn democracies and other representative governments, citizens vote for the political actors who will represent them. Some scholars argue that political polarization reflects the public's ideology and voting preferences. Dixit and Weibull (2007) claim that political polarization is a natural and regular phenomenon. They argue that there is a link between public differences in ideology and the polarization of representatives, but that an increase in preference differences is usually temporary and ultimately results in compromise.\n\nMorris P. Fiorina (2006, 2008) posits the hypothesis that polarization is a phenomenon which does not hold for the public, and instead is formulated by commentators to draw further division in government. Other studies indicate that cultural differences focusing on ideological movements and geographical polarization within the United States constituency is correlated with rises in overall political polarization between 1972 and 2004.\n\nReligious, ethnic, and other cultural divides within the public have often influenced the emergence of polarization. According to Layman et al. (2005), the ideological split between U.S. Republicans and Democrats also crosses into the religious cultural divide. They claim that Democrats have generally become more moderate in religious views whereas Republicans have become more traditionalist. For example, political scientists have shown that in the United States, voters who identify as Republican are more likely to vote for a strongly evangelical candidate than Democratic voters. This correlates with the rise in polarization in the United States. Another theory contends that religion does not contribute to full-group polarization, but rather, coalition and party activist polarization causes party shifts toward a political extreme.\n\nIn some post-colonial countries, the public may be polarized along ethnic divides that remain from the colonial regime. In South Africa in the late 1980s, members of the conservative, pro-apartheid National Party of South Africa were no longer supportive of apartheid, and, therefore, no longer ideologically aligned with their party. Dutch Afrikaners, white English, and native Africans split based on racial divisions, causing polarization along ethnic lines.\n\nEconomic inequality can also motivate the polarization of the public. For example, in post-World War I Germany, the Communist Workers Party, and the National Socialists, a fascist party, emerged as the dominant political ideologies and proposed to address Germany's economic problems in drastically different ways. In Venezuela in the late 20th century, the entrance of the oil industry into the local economy caused economic disparities that led to sharp ideological divides. As a result, the disenfranchised working class aligned with extreme socialist leader Hugo Chávez.\n\nGerrymandering or the manipulation of the electoral borders to favor a political party or the electoral outcome affect the redistricting process in the U.S. It has been linked to the rise in polarization by some political scientists. Some scholars argue that the practice of redistricting creates political polarization by making more homogeneous, ideologically distinct districts. This results in elected representatives who represent more polarized beliefs. According to Carson et al. (2007), this makes it easier for more extreme candidates to win elections (and re-election) as the makeup of the voting block shifts in the direction of a polar extreme. This effect is more modest when analyzed over multiple election cycles and in the United States as a whole. Politically motivated redistricting has been associated with the rise in partisanship in the U.S. House of Representatives between 1992 and 1994. Many political scientists however, argue that redistricting practices have not played a major role in causing political polarization. The impact of redistricting on political polarization is measurable, but over broad areas and time periods, the effect of redistricting on polarization is found to be minimal.\n\nThe mass media has grown as an institution over the past half-century. Political scientists argue that this has particularly affected the voting public in the last three decades, as previously less partisan viewers are given more polarized news media choices. The mass media's current, fragmented, high-choice environment has induced a movement of the audience from more even-toned political programming to more antagonistic and one-sided broadcasts and articles. These programs tend to appeal to partisan viewers who watch the polarized programming as a self-confirming source for their ideologies. Countries with less diversified but emerging media markets, such as China and South Korea, have become more polarized due to the diversification of political media. In addition, most search engines and social networks (e.g., Google, Facebook) now utilize computer algorithms as filters, which personalize web content based on a user's search history, location, and previous clicking patterns, creating more polarized access to information. This method of personalizing web content results in \"filter bubbles\", a term coined by digital activist Eli Pariser that refers to the polarized ideological bubbles that are created by computer algorithms filtering out unrelated information and opposing views.\n\nA 2011 study found ideological segregation of online news consumption is lower than the segregation of most offline news consumption and lower than the segregation of face-to-face interactions. This suggests that the filter bubbles effects of online media consumption are exaggerated. Other research also shows that online media does not contribute to the increased polarization of opinions.\n\nA 2017 study found that providing people with impartial, objective information has the potential to reduce political polarization, but the effect of information on polarization is highly sensitive to contextual factors. Specifically, polarization over government spending was reduced when people were provided with a \"Taxpayer Receipt,\" but not when they were also asked how they wanted the money to be spent. This suggests that subtle factors like the mood and tone of partisan news sources may have a large effect on how the same information is interpreted.\n\nThe implications of political polarization \"are not entirely clear and may include some benefits as well as detrimental consequences.\" While its exact effects are disputed, it clearly alters the political process and the political composition of the general public. Solomon Messing and Sean J. Westwood state that individuals do not necessarily become polarized through media because they choose their own exposure, which tends to already align with their views.\n\nNegative effects of polarization on the United States Congress include increased gridlock and partisanship at the cost of quality and quantity of passed legislation. It also incentivizes stall tactics and closed rules, such as filibusters on non-contentious issues and excluding minority party members from committee deliberations. These strategies hamper transparency, oversight, and the government's ability to handle long-term domestic issues, especially those regarding the distribution of benefits. Further, they foster animosity, as majority parties lose bipartisan and legislative coordination trying to expedite legislation to overcome them.\n\nSome scholars claim that political polarization is not so pervasive or destructive in influence, contending that partisan agreement is the historical trend in Congress and still frequent in the modern era, including on bills of political importance. Some studies have found approximately 80% of House bills passed in the modern era to have had support from both parties.\n\nOpinions on polarization's effects on the public are mixed. Some argue that the growing polarization in government has directly contributed to political polarization in the electorate, but this is not unanimous.\n\nSome scholars argue that polarization lowers public interest in politics, party identification and voter turnout. It encourages confrontational dynamics between parties that can lower overall public trust and approval in government., and causes the public to perceive the general political debate as less civil, which can alienate voters. More polarized candidates, especially when voters aren't aware of the increase, also tend to be less representative of the public's wishes.\n\nOn the other hand, others assert that elite polarization has galvanized the public's political participation in the United States, citing greater voting and nonvoting participation, engagement and investment in campaigns, and increased positive attitude toward government responsiveness. Polarized parties become more ideologically unified, furthering voter knowledge about their positions and increasing their standard to similarly-aligned voters.\n\nAs Mann and Ornstein argue, political polarization and the proliferation of media sources have \"reinforce[d] tribal divisions, while enhancing a climate where facts are no longer driving the debate and deliberation, nor are they shared by the larger public.\" As other scholars have argued, the media often support and provoke the stall and closed rules tactics that disrupt regular policy procedure.\n\nWhile the media are not immune to general public opinion and reduced polarization allows them to appeal to a larger audience, polarized environments make it easier for the media and interest groups to hold elected officials more accountable for their policy promises and positions, generally healthy for democracy.\n\nJudicial systems can also be affected by the implications of political polarization. For the United States, in particular, polarization lowers confirmation rates of judges; In 2012, the confirmation rate of presidential circuit court appointments was approximately 50% as opposed to the above 90% rate in the late 1970s and early 1980s. More polarized parties have more aggressively block nominees and used tactics to hinder executive agendas. Political scientist Sarah Binder (2000) argues that \"senatorial intolerance for the opposing party’s nominees is itself a function of polarization.\" Negative consequences of this include higher vacancy rates on appellate courts, longer case-processing times and increased caseloads for judges.\n\nPolitical scientists argue that in highly polarized periods, nominees become less reflective of the moderate voter as \"polarization impacts the appointment and ideological tenor of new federal judges.\" It also influences the politics of senatorial advice and consent, giving partisan presidents the power to appoint judges far to the left or right of center on the federal bench, obstructing the legitimacy of the judicial branch.\n\nUltimately, the increasing presence of ideology in a judicial system impacts the judiciary's credibility. Polarization can generate strong partisan critiques of federal judges, which can damage the public perception of the justice system and the legitimacy of the courts as nonpartisan legal arbiters. \n\nPolitical polarization can undercut unified agreement on foreign policy and harm a nation's international standing; divisiveness on foreign affairs strengthens enemies, discourages allies and destabilize a nation's determination.\n\nPolitical scientists point to two primary implications of polarization with regards to the foreign policy of the United States\". First, when the United States conducts relations abroad and appears divided, allies are less likely to trust its promises, enemies are more likely to predict its weaknesses, and uncertainty as to the country's position in world affairs rises. Second, elite opinion has a significant impact on the public's perception and understanding of foreign policy, a field where Americans have less prior knowledge to rely on.\n\nOutside of the U.S., there are plenty of modern day examples of polarization in politics. A bulk of the research into global polarization comes from Europe. One example includes Pasokification in Greece. This is the trend from a shift from the center-left to a more far-left stance. Pasokification was caused by the Greek populous growing dissatisfied with the country's centrist, left wing party and how they handled the Great Recession and the austerity measures the European Union put in place during recovery. Although the shift further to the left was a massive benefits to the liberal population in Greece, the results in Greece (as well as other nations like Germany, Sweden and Italy) have not been able to sustain themselves. Parties who have made the shift left have recently shown a decline in the voting booths, evidence their supporters are uneasy of the future. \n\nThe shift in Greece to the far-left is similar to the shift in countries like Poland, France and the U.K. to more far-right conservative positions. In those countries, there is heavy anti-Islam sentiment and the rise of populist commentary. The general population of the right in these countries tends to hold onto these more aggressive stances and pulls the parties further to the right. These stances include populist messages with Islamophobic, isolationist, and anti-LGBTQ language. Much of the polarization in these nations leads to either a more socialist left wing party, or more nationalist right wing party. These more polarized parties grow from the discontent of more moderate parties inability to provide progressive changes in either direction. \n\nThere have long been numerous scholarly debates that argue over the concept of political polarization, both in whether it is valid, and how it can accurately be measured. There are four primary arguments against the validity of political polarization: 1) Limitations of the Two-Party System, 2) Issue Partisanship, 3) Cultural Differences, and 4) Westernized Focuses.\n\nBy solely acknowledging voting patterns, one cannot make an accurate conclusion as to the presence or absence of political polarization, because in the United States, there is a limited number of presidential candidates in the two-party system. To assume that the majority of voters are mostly or completely in agreement with the plethora of political issues within their party is a false assumption. Despite contrary beliefs, there are many liberal Republicans and conservative Democrats in the U.S. who have differing political beliefs within their parties. However, these voters most often align with their party because of the limited choice of candidates, and to do otherwise (i.e. vote for a third-party candidate) is perceived as a waste of time.\n\nDespite various claims that argue American society is more polarized today than leading up to the U.S. Civil War, numerous scholars explain that much evidence shows there is a relatively stable public opinion on the majority of sociopolitical issues. Where the most polarization exists, rather, is in the \"hot topic\" or \"sensitive\" issues (e.g. abortion, gay marriage, U.S. involvement in war). Over-reliance on focusing on opinions regarding social issues to draw conclusion about political polarization is not a valid measurement to fully represent the concept.\n\nIn regard to views on public policies, Fiorina and Abrams (2008) found virtually no evidence of an increase in widespread political polarization over the past thirty years. Nonetheless, many scholars explain that it is not an increase in ideological coherence among individuals which separates them; it is the partisan extremism (i.e. Democrat v. Republican) which eventually separates voters into one party or the other.\n\nProponents of the cultural differences argument are critical of political polarization because of numerous factors, influences, and demographics. Among voter demographic features, there is much evidence of race, sex, age, and educational attainment as being some of the main influences in voting behaviors. In addition to these factors, the geographic region often plays a major role in voting behavior. Lastly, one's socioeconomic status is a reliable predictor of voting behavior. The combination of these factors and influences compel researchers to reconsider the causes of political polarization.\n\nMuch like many academic studies, political polarization scholars often are too narrowly focused within one nation and, thus, make broad generalizations regarding the concept from a national study. To have a better picture of the presence or absence of political polarization, scholars must consider widening the scope of their studies to the international contexts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42308421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42308421", "title": "Political decay", "text": "Political decay\n\nPolitical decay is a political theory, originally described by Samuel P. Huntington, which describes how chaos and disorder can arise from social modernization increasing more rapidly than political and institutional modernization. Huntington provides different definitions for political development and describes the forms of political decay according to the various definitions. Huntington focuses primarily on political development as modernization and institutionalization. However, he points to the different definitions of political development as being arbitrary ways to understanding the rise of political systems and the relationship between the political systems in different nations.\n\nHuntington identifies two characteristics of political development. The first is that development is synonymous with modernization, thus political development can be defined as political modernization. The second is that there are many criteria to measure political development because modernization and development are such broad topics, covering many areas. There are four generally agreed-upon criteria to determine political development. The first is rationalization, which involves the movement from particularism to universalism, or, from a political standpoint, a focus on functional differentiation and achievement criteria. The second criterion is nationalism, and national integration. This emphasizes nation-states and nation-building as a key aspect of political development. The third criterion is a focus on democratization, which is in essence a focus on competition and equalization of power. The final criterion is mobilization, which is a focus on political participation. The greater the development, the greater the modernization, the greater the mobilization, and therefore the greater the political participation. Ultimately, political development can be defined as an increase in national political unity and an increase in political participation.\n\nAccording to Huntington's definition of political development as modernization, political decay is the opposite of the linear idea of social progress—although, within the model of modernization, social regression is not possible. Instead, political decay takes place because \"modern and modernizing states can change by losing capabilities as well as by gaining them. In addition, a gain in any one capability usually involves costs in others.\" The model of modernization was used to compare the political systems of different countries with social development reflecting the linear progression of political institutions. However, research into the relationship between development of political institutions and modernization has pointed to inconsistent development. In some political systems, such as certain Latin American regions, governments have been influenced by military intervention as a result of the government's inability to cope with the strains of modernization.\n\nUnder the framework of political development as institutional development, political decay occurs when institutions fail to change or adapt when they become unnecessary due to social or economic changes. Dan Halvorson challenges the idea of political decay as an institutional failure by claiming that the idea of political decay is tied to a Western ideal of political institution without taking into account widely-varying cultural institutions and the inability of post-colonial states to adapt to Western ideals. Fukuyama refers to political decay as the social and economic forces that upset the equilibrium of established political order. Institutions of the Roman Empire government failed to meet the moral and economic needs of the citizens, resulting in the conditions that would facilitate political decay and the fall of the Roman state. Under the institutional model, political decay can be observed as a decrease in competence and credibility and establishment of institutional corruption over a period of time.\n\nDifferent social and economic factors contribute to both the political development as well as the political decay of nations. Outside forces such as foreign governments affect the stability of established governments due to contrasting social institutions or economic interests. In order to be considered stable, government procedures and institutions must maintain autonomy and be resistant to outside agents. The social and economic forces that established political stability could change or disappear, leading to internal instability. Economic development, such as shifts from agriculture-based economy to manufacturing-based economy, as well as economic collapse, can also lead to political instability. Social developments, such as the proliferation of literacy, lead to the rise and spread of new ideas.\n\nPolitical instability occurs when one faction in a state's government is in opposition with another faction or with another institution in government. Sri Lanka saw a period of political instability following elections in 1994 caused by the ambitions of political leaders. The elected President Kumaratunga attempted to change the constitution and dissolve the parliament in order to remain in power, leading to sudden changes in the structure of the law-making body. Political instability occurred during the late 18th century in France and other parts of Europe during the 19th century. Political development in France, such as the development of the bureaucracy and other institutions, led to a greater demand for meritocracy and greater political conflict among the ruling class. In some cases, political breakdown can occur within the framework of a state's constitution. India has provisions its constitution which grant leaders the power to breach or oppose the constitution in cases of emergency. These breaches of the state law from within the political system can lead to political decay.\n\nHuntington's model of political development and decay describes elements such as industrialization, urbanization, education and literacy as social developments that create instability. The presence of violent conflict is not always indicative of social decay. Due to the complex character of state-building and shifts in political systems, violence is not a reliable indicator of political decay or development. The socialization of law is a process by which legislation is changed in order to adapt to economic and social changes. Socialization of law is one of the forces that opposes political decay within Huntington's structure of modernization, by ensuring that the political institutions in place are resistant to social instability.\n\nHuntington's former student, Francis Fukuyama, has developed the theory of political decay by analysing the sclerosis of democratic institutions in the United States and elsewhere. The second of Fukuyama's two volumes on political order, \"Political Order and Political Decay\" (2014), echoes the title of Huntington's seminal 1965 essay. Fukuyama focuses on the concept of political decay in the framework of a history of the rise and fall of Chinese dynasties and the causes of political and social stability during each dynasty.\n"}
{"id": "35965249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35965249", "title": "Political gaffe", "text": "Political gaffe\n\nA political gaffe is an error made by a politician.\n\n\"Gaffe\" is of French origin, originally a 'boat hook' as in 'gaff rig' where the relation is apparent, but the sense association to a blundering remark is obscure.\n\nA Kinsley gaffe occurs when a political gaffe reveals some truth that a politician did not intend to admit. The term comes from journalist Michael Kinsley, who said, \"A gaffe is when a politician tells the truth – some obvious truth he isn't supposed to say.\"\n\nThe term gaffe may be used to describe an inadvertent statement by a politician that the politician believes is true while the politician has not fully analyzed the consequences of publicly stating it. Another definition is a statement made when the politician privately believes it to be true, realizes the dire consequences of saying it, and yet inadvertently utters, in public, the unutterable. Another definition is a politician's statement of what is on his or her mindthis may or may not be inadvertentthereby leading to a ritualized 'gaffe dance' between candidates. While exhibiting umbrage or shock, and playing on the mistake, the 'offended candidate' must not exhibit anything resembling glee. A propensity to concentrate on so-called 'gaffes' in campaigns has been criticized as a journalistic device that can lead to distraction from real issues. The Kinsley gaffe is said to be a species of the general 'political gaffe.'\n\nKinsley himself posed the question: \"Why should something a politician says by accident automatically be taken as a better sign of his or her real thinking than something he or she says on purpose?\"\n\nSteven Pinker says that politicians use vague and indirect language to avoid making concrete statements, and that lazy journalists base political coverage around \"gaffe spotting\" rather than analysis of political platforms.\n\nThe rise of Internet activism has created a new generation of negative campaigning where a political campaign can create attack ads within an hour of a politician making a gaffe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221737", "title": "Political history", "text": "Political history\n\nPolitical history is the narrative and analysis of political events, ideas, movements, organs of government, voters, parties and leaders. It is interrelated to other fields of history, especially diplomatic history, as well as constitutional history and public history.\n\nPolitical history studies the organization and operation of power in large societies. By focusing on the elites in power, on their impact on society, on popular response, and on the relationships with the elites in other social history, which focuses predominantly on the actions and lifestyles of ordinary people, or people's history, which is historical work from the perspective of the common people.\n\nIn two decades from 1975 to 1995, the proportion of professors of history in American universities identifying with social history rose from 31% to 41%, and the proportion of political historians fell from 40% to 30%. In the history departments of British and Irish universities in 2014, of the 3410 faculty members reporting, 878 (26%) identified themselves with social history, and political history came next at 841 (25%) faculty members.\n\nThe political history of the world is the history of the evolution of the political events, ideas, movements, leaders and entities, and the way these elements shape society as a whole; Special importance is their crystallisation into political entities such as republics, empires and so on; and the study of the international relations between them. Together with this descriptive analysis, the history of political thinking narrates the evolution of the political ideas and philosophy, and goes back to antiquity. Political history, and thus the history of political thinking throughout human existence stretches though up to Medieval period and the Renaissance. In the Age of Enlightenment, political entities expanded from basic systems of self-governance and monarchy to the complex democratic and communist systems that exist of the Industrialied and the Modern Era, in parallel, political systems have expanded from vaguely defined frontier-type boundaries, to the definite boundaries existing today.\n\nThe first \"scientific\" political history was written by Leopold von Ranke in Germany in the 19th century. His methodologies profoundly affected the way historians critically examine sources; see historiography for a more complete analysis of the methodology of various approaches to history. An important aspect of political history is the study of ideology as a force for historical change. One author asserts that \"political history as a whole cannot exist without the study of ideological differences and their implications.\" Studies of political history typically centre around a single nation and its political change and development. Some historians identify the growing trend towards narrow specialization in political history during recent decades: \"while a college professor in the 1940s sought to identify himself as a \"historian\", by the 1950s \"American historian\" was the designation.\"\n\nFrom the 1970s onwards, new movements challenged traditional approaches to political history. The development of social history shifted the emphasis away from the study of leaders and national decisions, and towards the role of ordinary people, especially outsiders and minorities. Younger scholars shifted to different issues, usually focused on race, class and gender, with little room for elites. After 1990 social history itself began to fade, replaced with postmodern and cultural approaches that rejected grand narrative.\n\nTraditional political history focused on major leaders and had long played a dominant role among academic historians in the United States. These studies accounted for about 25% of the scholarly books and articles written by American historians before 1950, and about 33% into the 1960s, followed by diplomacy. The arrival in the 1960s and 1970s of a new interest in social history led to the emergence of the \"new political history\" which saw young scholars put much more emphasis on the voters' behavior and motivation, rather than just the politicians. It relied heavily on quantitative methods to integrate social themes, especially regarding ethnicity and religion. The new social science approach was a harbinger of the fading away of interest in Great Men. The eclipse of traditional political approaches during the 1970s was a major shock, though diplomatic history fell even further. It was upstaged by social history, with a race/class/gender model. The number of political articles submitted to the \"Journal of American History\" fell by half from 33% to 15%. Patterson argued that contemporary events, especially the Vietnam War and Watergate, alienated younger scholars away from the study of politicians and their deeds. Political history never disappeared, but it never recovered its dominance among scholars, despite its sustained high popularity among the reading public. Some political historians made fun of their own predicament, as when William Leuchtenburg wrote, \"the status of the political historians within the profession has sunk to somewhere between that of a faith healer and a chiropractor. Political historians were all right in a way, but you might not want to bring one home to meet the family.\" Others were more analytical, as when Hugh Davis Graham observed:\n\nReadman (2009) discusses the historiography of British political history in the 20th century. He describes how British political scholarship mostly ignored 20th century history due to temporal proximity to the recent past, the unavailability of primary sources, and the potential for bias. The article explores how transitions in scholarship have allowed for greater interest in 20th century history among scholars, which include less reliance on archival sources, methodological changes in historiography, and the flourishing of new forms of history such as oral history.\n\nIn the course of the 1960s, however, some German historians (notably Hans-Ulrich Wehler and his cohort) began to rebel against this idea, instead suggesting a \"Primacy of Domestic Politics\" (\"Primat der Innenpolitik\"), in which the insecurities of (in this case German) domestic policy drove the creation of foreign policy. This led to a considerable body of work interpreting the domestic policies of various states and the ways this influenced their conduct of foreign policy.\n\nThe French \"Annales School\" had already put an emphasis on the role of geography and economics on history, and of the importance of broad, slow cycles rather than the constant apparent movement of the \"history of events\" of high politics. It downplayed politics and diplomacy. The most important work of the \"Annales\" school, Fernand Braudel's \"The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World in the Age of Philip II\", contains a traditional Rankean diplomatic history of Philip II's Mediterranean policy, but only as the third and shortest section of a work largely focusing on the broad cycles of history in the \"longue durée\" (\"long term\"). The \"Annales\" were broadly influential, leading to a turning away from political history towards an emphasis on broader trends of economic and environmental change.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, an increasing emphasis on giving a voice to the voiceless and writing the history of the underclasses, whether by using the quantitative statistical methods of social history or the more postmodern assessments of cultural history, also undermined the centrality of politics to the historical discipline. Leff noted how social historians, \"disdained political\nhistory as elitist, shallow, altogether passe, and irrelevant to the drama of everyday lives.\"\nMaxRange is a dataset defining level of democracy and institutional structure(regime-type) on a 100-graded scale where every value represents a unique regimetype. Values are sorted from 1-100 based on level of democracy and political accountability. MaxRange defines the value (regimetype) corresponding to all states and every month from 1789 to 2015 and updating. MaxRange is created and developed by Max Range, and is now associated with the university of Halmstad, Sweden \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830609", "title": "Political ideas in science fiction", "text": "Political ideas in science fiction\n\nThe exploration of politics in science fiction is arguably older than the identification of the genre. One of the earliest works of modern science fiction, H. G. Wells’ \"The Time Machine\", is an extrapolation of the class structure of the United Kingdom of his time, an extreme form of Social Darwinism; during tens of thousands of years, human beings have evolved into two different species based on their social class.\n\nMost story and novel-length works of science fiction include speculation (directly or indirectly) on modes of life and behaviour. They are sometimes allegorical and often serious attempts to model possible future societies, political institutions and systems. Examples include Harry Harrison's novel \"Make Room! Make Room!\", \"The Dispossessed\" by Ursula K. Le Guin; and the \"Hostile Takeover\" Trilogy by S. Andrew Swann. \nImagined societies may be based on very different assumptions. Often the future is modeled on historic forms - feudalism, or in the case of The Foundation series, the Roman Empire. A common theme is the integration of humanity into some greater interstellar society. A popular modern example is the \"Uplift\" series by David Brin where a species' status is defined based on the concept of biologically uplifting other species.\n\nThe term Utopia was invented by Thomas More as the title of his Latin book \"De Optimo Reipublicae Statu deque Nova Insula Utopia\" (circa 1516), known more commonly as Utopia. He created the word \"utopia\" to suggest two Greek neologisms simultaneously: outopia (no place) and eutopia (good place). More depicts a rationally organised society, through the narration of an explorer who discovers it—Raphael Hythlodaeus. Utopia is a republic where all property is held in common. In addition, it has few laws, no lawyers and rarely sends its citizens to war, but hires mercenaries from among its war-prone neighbours.\n\nGenerally speaking, utopias are generally societies whose author believes either perfect, or as perfect as can be attainable. Ernest Callenbach's \"Ecotopia\" is a contemporary example. This can cause some confusion, in that some works generally recognized as “utopian”, such as Plato’s \"Republic\", can come across as much less than ideal to a modern reader. They are one of the smaller subsets of political science fiction, possibly because it is difficult to create dramatic tension in a world the author believes is perfect. Various authors get around this problem by postulating problems in the utopian society, such L. Neil Smith does. Other ways of presenting a utopian society in science fiction, is to send characters outside it to explore beyond its confines (ala \"Star Trek\"), or focus on an outsider character entering the society, as in Aldous Huxley’s \"Brave New World\". This last method is often used to show that the utopian society shown is actually a dystopia. Kim Stanley Robinson's approach in \"The Mars Trilogy\" involved exploring the creation of utopian and ecotopian societies on Mars.\n\nAnother option for a Utopian society can be found in robotocracy, or the rule of Robots or Computers, with the theory that a programmed machine can dispassionately provide for the welfare of all. Examples of this include various works of Isaac Asimov and the planet of Sigma Draconis VI in the Star Trek episode \"Spock's Brain\". If the machine rule becomes harsh or oppressive, it may become a dystopia instead.\n\nDystopias are societies where the author illustrates the worst that can happen. Usually this encompasses extrapolating trends the author sees as dangerous. During the 20th century many examples were written in reaction to the rise of Nazism, Communism and Religious Fundamentalism:\n\n\nIt is important to keep in mind that scenarios which some would describe as dystopic, others would describe as utopian. Norman Spinrad's novel\" The Iron Dream\" was generally recognised to be a dystopic novel, but lauded by neo-Nazis as a utopia.\n\nOften the political focus of a science fiction novel is less on the social order, but how people maneuver and achieve their agendas within a given system. Many space operas rely on vast interstellar bureaucracies to drive their plots \"(see: Galactic empire)\". George Lucas's famous \"Star Wars\" saga features political science modeled after historic events. The Retief stories by Keith Laumer and the Chanur books by C. J. Cherryh have politics and political maneuverings as some of the main themes, and Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" books offer advanced explorations of human politics, including the dovetailing economics. Often this focus can descend into conspiracy and paranoia where the premise is that there are secret forces out to get the protagonists, the seminal example of which is the \"Illuminatus! Trilogy\". Most commonly, science fiction deals with the political fallout of its own premises. A story will posit some new event or technology and explore its political dimensions; this includes most techno-thrillers but also encompasses a large body of traditional science fiction. An example is the Philip K. Dick story \"The Minority Report\" (upon which the film starring Tom Cruise is based), which introduces the idea of perfectly predicting a crime of violence so the perpetrator can be arrested before the crime is committed, and the political and legal ramifications of actually using such a system.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23554608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23554608", "title": "Present age", "text": "Present age\n\nThe term \"present age\" is a concept in the philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard. A formulation of the modern age can be found in Kierkegaard's work \"\":\n\nKierkegaard argues the present age drains the meaning out of ethical concepts through passionless indolence. The concepts are still used, but are drained of all meaning by virtue of their detachment from a life view which is passion-generated and produces consistent action.\n\nKierkegaard published this book in 1846 just after the Corsair Affair in which he was attacked by the press. He attacks not only the Press but the Public it serves in this book. He is against abstract moments in time or public opinion as a basis for forming relationships. He wrote about the single individual in his \"Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses\" and kept to that category here.\n\nNewspapers were mediating information and individuals were joining together based on this mediating influence. The same thing is happening now with the internet. Kierkegaard advised that \"real\" people retain a concrete identity in the face of an abstract public opinion. He wrote: \n\n\"The Present Age\" and \"Two Minor Ethico-Religious Treatises\" were originally translated by Walter Lowrie and Alexander Dru in 1940. Later, in 1962, Alexander Dru's translation of \"The Present Age\" was published along with \"Of The Difference Between a Genius and an Apostle\". This translation had a long introduction by Walter Kaufmann.\n\nSeveral contemporary philosophers, including Anthony Rudd, John Davenport, and Alasdair MacIntyre allocate this concept and apply it as an analysis of nihilism. Hubert Dreyfus, for example in his essay \"Anonymity vrs. Commitment in the Present Age\", argues that Kierkegaard, \"who was always concerned with nihilism, warns that his age is characterized by a disinterested reflection and curiosity that levels all differences of status and value.\"\n\nOther thinkers apply the concept as a symptom of herd behavior or mob mentality. Norman Lillegard argues that the present age is \"incapable of anything but 'crowd actions' which are not true actions at all.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31576812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31576812", "title": "Public Affairs Quarterly", "text": "Public Affairs Quarterly\n\nPublic Affairs Quarterly is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers current issues in social and political philosophy. The current editor is David Boonin (University of Colorado Boulder).\n"}
{"id": "57485726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57485726", "title": "Quadratic voting", "text": "Quadratic voting\n\nQuadratic voting (sometimes abbreviated QV) is a collective decision-making procedure, where participants cast their \"preference\" and \"intensity of preference\" for each decision (as opposed to a simple \"for\" or \"against\" decision).\n\nAccording to its authors Steven P. Lalley and E. Glen Weyl, Quadratic voting is claimed to achieve the greatest possible good for the greatest number of group members although other proponents of Quadratic Voting admit that is at best an approximation. It addresses issues of voting paradox and majority-rule.\n\nBased on market principles, each voter is endowed with a budget of “voice credits” that they may spend influencing the outcome of a range of decisions. If a participant has a strong preference for or against a particular decision, additional votes can be allocated. A vote pricing rule determines the cost of additional votes, whereby each vote increasingly becomes more expensive.\n\nThe quadratic nature of the voting means that a voter can use his or her votes more efficiently spread across many issues. For example a voter with a budget of 16 vote credits can apply 1 vote credit to each of 16 issues. But if they feel strongly about a single issue and apply 4 votes at the cost of 16 credits to a single issue. This will use their entire budget. This also means there is a large incentive to buy and sell votes, although using a strictly secret ballot gives some protection against vote buying as the purchase cannot be verified.\n"}
{"id": "31515773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31515773", "title": "Rav akçesi", "text": "Rav akçesi\n\nRav akçesi was a \"rabbi tax\" paid by Jewish communities in the Ottoman Empire. The origins of Rav akçesi are unclear; it has been suggested that it was one of two taxes imposed specifically on Jews, and that it may have developed in parallel with the authority of a senior rabbi in Istanbul, who was at nominally a representative and judge for Jewish communities in the Ottoman empire, although their authority may not have extended far beyond Istanbul.\n\nIt has been suggested that Mehmet II imposed the tax in return for separate representation of Jews after 1455, as part of a broader effort to rebuild and revive Istanbul; this may also have served to undermine the Greek patriarchy. Under the Ottoman empire there was, at time, friction between \"Greeks\" and \"Jews\"; the authorities may at times have favoured one over the other.\n\nAlthough \"rav akçesi\" was a cash tax, rather than a tax in kind, it could be hypothecated to provide specific goods; tax records for 1655 show that the rav akçesi in Monastir (Bitola) was a significant source of funding of drapery for janissaries; the tax official responsible for purchases would be the same person responsible for collecting the tax.\n\nNon-Muslims were usually taxed at a higher rate, overall, in the Ottoman empire, thanks to taxes such as rav akçesi and ispence. Jews in particular may have been singled out to pay higher rates of ispence. The Porte was well aware of this - and even aware that this would tempt nonmuslims to convert; Bayezit II ruled that courts should treat nonmuslims more leniently (including such measures as lower fines), \"so that the poll-tax payers shall not vanish\".\n\nAs with other taxes in the Ottoman empire, rav akçesi could be affected by a complex patchwork of local rules and exemptions, including muafiyet; the Jews of Selanik (Thessaloniki) were among those exempted from taxes by a muafname after the city was conquered by Murad II.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840064", "title": "Revolutionary Workers Party of Bangladesh", "text": "Revolutionary Workers Party of Bangladesh\n\nRevolutionary Workers Party of Bangladesh is a political party in Bangladesh. The party emerged as a splinter group of Workers Party of Bangladesh, and initially the party also used the name 'Workers Party of Bangladesh'. Party president is Khandaker Ali Abbas and the general secretary is Saiful Haque. The group came out of WPB on June 14, 2004. It opposed the tactic of making joint actions together with the Awami League.\n\nMass organisation of the party are the Bangladesh Agricultural Labour Union (BALU), Viplavi Krishak Sanhati (Revolutionary Peasants Union) and Shramjibi Nari Moitreyi (Working Women's Unity). The party publishes \"People's Democracy\".\n"}
{"id": "5210960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5210960", "title": "Right-wing terrorism", "text": "Right-wing terrorism\n\nRight-wing terrorism is terrorism motivated by a variety of ideologies and beliefs, including Islamophobia, anti-communism, neo-fascism and neo-Nazism. This type of terrorism has been sporadic, with little or no international cooperation. Modern radical right-wing terrorism first appeared in Western Europe in the 1970s and it first appeared in Eastern Europe following the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nRight-wing terrorists aim to overthrow governments and replace them with nationalist or fascist-oriented regimes. The core of this movement includes neo-fascist skinheads, far-right hooligans, youth sympathisers and intellectual guides who believe that the state must rid itself of foreign elements in order to protect its \"rightful\" citizens. However, they usually lack a rigid ideology. \n\nArmin Falk and colleagues suggests that Right-Wing Extremist Crime (REC), which includes anti-foreigner and racist motivations, is associated with unemployment rates (261). Consequently, as unemployment rates increase, REC also increases. This correlation can be found in several countries including Germany, United States, and the United Kingdom. Additionally, this phenomenon is not necessarily associated with individuals, rather unemployment impacts society's humanitarian values of tolerance and altruism. Meaning, as unemployment rates increase, humanitarian values of tolerance and altruism decrease according to Falk. This cause of right-wing terrorism can be associated with a functionalist perspective on employment. Ferrante defines a functionalist approach as \"how the parts of society contribute in expected and unexpected way of maintain an existing social order\" (26). Work and employment serve several functions for society (University of Minnesota 12.2). The University of Minnesota Library suggests that employment provides workers with an income and also contributes to their self-identity and fulfillment (12.2). When employment is low, this leads to a perceived threat towards self-identity and fulfillment which can then lead to a larger possibility for right-wing terrorism to occur.\n\nA second cause of right-wing terrorism as Thomas Greven suggests, is populism, or more accurately, right-wing populism. Jan-Werner Muller describes populism as a form of identity politics that is inherently anti-establishment and anti-pluralist (3). More simply put, populism supports the advancement of 'the average citizen', and it does not support the agendas of the privileged elite. Furthermore, Greven defines right-wing populist as those who support ethnocentrism, and oppose immigration (3). Right-wing populist policies that have recently been covered in the media include the Executive Order 13769, which is the travel ban from Muslim-majority countries to the United States, and the Immigration policy of Donald Trump which proposes that a wall should be built between the United States and Mexico in order to prevent illegal immigrants from coming to the United States. Greven suggests that immigration policy not only threatens economic competition, but also threatens traditional values and identities (5). Due to the ethnocentric motivations behind these policies, they are classified as right-wing populism. Because right-wing populism creates a climate of 'us versus them', terrorism is more likely to occur according to Greven. This cause of right-wing terrorism can be associated with a conflict perspective. Ferrante explains the conflict perspective as a focus on conflict regarding scarce resources and the strategies advantaged groups used to perpetuate social agreement arrangements from which they benefit (30). When people feel as though their traditional values are being threatened by the social elite who contribute to the rise in immigration, conflict ensues, and terrorism follows.\n\nIn 1993 Chris Hani, the General Secretary of the South African Communist Party was murdered by Polish-born far-right anti-Communist Janusz Waluś who had been lent a firearm by far-right pro-Apartheid MP Clive Derby-Lewis.\nThe Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging, a neo-Nazi paramilitary organisation, has often been described as terrorist. \nIn 2010 South African authorities foiled a plot by far-right terrorists to commit attacks as revenge for the murder of Eugène Terre'Blanche, seizing explosives and firearms.\n\nDuring Brazil's military government, some right-wing military engaged in violent repression. The Riocentro 1981 May Day Attack was a bombing attempt that happened on the night of April 30, 1981. Severe casualties were suffered by the terrorists. While an NGO held a fundraiser fighting for democracy and free elections and celebrating the upcoming holiday, a bomb exploded at Riocentro parking area killing army seargent Guilherme Pereira do Rosário and severely wounding captain Wilson Dias Machado, who survived the bomb explosion. The bomb exploded inside a car where both were preparing it. Rosário died instantaneously. They were the only casualties.\n\nThe Para-SAR example was revealed by Brazilian Air Force captain Sérgio Ribeiro Miranda de Carvalho in 1968 before it reached the execution phase as it was made public to the press after a meeting with his superior Brigadier General João Paulo Burnier and chief of Para-SAR unity. Burnier discussed a secret plan to bomb a dense traffic area of Rio de Janeiro known as \"Gasômetro\" during commute and later claim that Communists were the perpetrators. He expected to be able to run a witch-hunt against the growing political military opposition. Burnier also mentioned his intentions on making the Para-SAR, a Brazilian Air Force rescue unity, a tool for eliminating some military government political oppositors throwing them to the sea at a wide distance of the coast. On both of these events, no military involved on these actions or planning was arrested, charged or faced retaliation from the Brazilian military government. The only exception is captain Sérgio de Carvalho which had to leave the air force for facing his superiors retaliation after whistleblowing brigadier Burnier's plan.\n\nColombian paramilitary groups were responsible for most of the human rights violations in the latter half of the ongoing Colombian conflict. The first paramilitary terrorist groups were organized by U.S. military advisers who were sent during the Cold War to combat the spread of leftist politicians, activists and guerrillas.\n\nAccording to several international human rights and governmental organizations, right-wing paramilitary groups were responsible for at least 70 to 80% of political murders in Colombia per year.\n\nThis groups were financed and protected by elite landowners, drug traffickers, members of the security forces, right wing politicians and multinational corporations.\n\nParamilitary violence and terrorism there was principally targeted towards peasants, unionists, indigenous people, human rights workers, teachers and left-wing political activists or their supporters.\n\nThe Contras were a right wing militant group, backed by the United States, that fought against the Sandinista National Liberation Front in Nicaragua. They were responsible for numerous human rights violations and carried out over 1300 terrorist attacks.\n\nThe term \"white terrorism\" is used by scholars to label terrorism committed against African Americans during the Reconstruction era.\n\nAccording to George Michael, \"right-wing terrorism and violence has a long history in America\". Right-wing violent incidents began to outnumber Marxist incidents in the United States during the 1980s and 1990s. Michael observes the waning of left-wing terrorism accompanying the rise of right-wing terrorism, with a noticeable \"convergence\" of the goals of militant Islam with those of the extreme right. Islamic studies scholar Youssef M. Choueiri classified Islamic fundamentalist movements involving revivalism, reformism, and radicalism as within the scope of \"right-wing politics\".\n\nDuring the 1980s, more than 75 right-wing extremists were prosecuted in the United States for acts of terrorism, carrying out six attacks. In 1983, Gordon Kahl, a Posse Comitatus activist, killed two federal marshals and he was later killed by police. Also that year, the white nationalist revolutionary group The Order (also known as the Brüder Schweigen or the Silent Brotherhood) robbed banks and armored cars, as well as a sex shop, bombed a theater and a synagogue and murdered radio talk show host Alan Berg.\n\nThe April 19, 1995 attack on the Murrah federal building in Oklahoma by Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols killed 168 people and it was the deadliest act of domestic terrorism in the history of the United States. McVeigh stated that it was committed in retaliation for the government's actions at Ruby Ridge and Waco.\n\nEric Rudolph executed a series of terrorist attacks between 1996 and 1998. He carried out the 1996 Centennial Olympic Park bombing—which claimed two lives and injured 111—aiming to cancel the games, claiming they promoted global socialism and to embarrass the U.S. government. Rudolph confessed to bombing an abortion clinic in Sandy Springs, an Atlanta suburb, on January 16, 1997, the Otherside Lounge, an Atlanta lesbian bar, on February 21, 1997, injuring five and an abortion clinic in Birmingham, Alabama on January 29, 1998, killing Birmingham police officer and part-time clinic security guard Robert Sanderson and critically injuring nurse Emily Lyons.\n\nAs of October 2018, the New America Foundation placed the number killed in terrorist attacks in the United States since 9/11 as follows: 104 killed in jihadist terrorist attacks, 86 killed in far-right attacks, and 8 killed in black separatist/nationalist/supremacist attacks. The politically conservative Daily Caller News Foundation using data from the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START), found 92% of all \"ideologically motivated homicide incidents\" committed in the United States from 2007 to 2016 were motivated by right-wing extremism or white supremacism. According to the Government Accountability Office of the United States, 73% of violent extremist incidents that resulted in deaths since September 12, 2001 were caused by right-wing extremist groups.\n\nNew America's tally shows that since September 11, 2001, incidents of right-wing extremism have caused 86 deaths. Incidents causing death were:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Count of \"victims killed\" and \"victims wounded\" excludes attackers.\n\nA report in \"The Washington Post\", published on November 25, 2018, showed violent right-wing-related incidents up, and left-wing-related incidents down. Total domestic terrorism incidents was down to 41 in 2001, from a high of 468 in 1970, but then went up to 65 in 2017. Of those 65 events in 2017, 36 were right-wing-related (with 11 fatalities), 10 were left-wing-related (with 6 fatalities), 7 were related to Islamist extremism (with 16 fatalities), and 12, including the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, were categorized as \"Other/Unknown\" (with 62 fatalities, including 58 from the Las Vegas incident). The report found that 2018 was a particularly deadly year, with 11 people dying in the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting, 2 others in an incident in Kentucky, and two more in a shooting in Tallasshee. All three incidents were right-wing related.\n\nThe \"Post\" reported that the upsurge in right-wing violence began during the Barack Obama administration and picked up steam under the presidency of Donald Trump, whose remarks after the Unite the Right rally in Charlotteville, Virginia in 2017 that there were \"some very fine people on both sides\" is widely seen as giving confidence to the right that the administration looked favorably on their goals, providing them with \"tacit support\". A former FBI assistant director for counterintelligence, is quoted as saying that \"[political leaders] from the White House down, used to serve as a check on conduct and speech that was abhorrent to most people. I see that eroding. ... The current political rhetoric is at least enabling, and certainly not discouraging, violence.\"\n\nAccording to analysis by the newspaper of data from the Global Terrorism Database, 92 of 263 domestic terrorism events – 35% – that occurred from 2010 to 2017 were right-wing related, while 38 (14%) were Islamist extremist-related, and 34 (13%) were left-wing related. Not only that, but a criminologist from John Jay College stated that right-wing attacks were statistically more likely to result in fatalities.\n\nNeo-Nazis were suspected to have perpetrated the 1992 Copenhagen bombing, in which the office of a left-wing socialist party was attacked, killing one of its members.\n\nIn the town of Toulon, a far-right extremist group called SOS-France existed. On 18 August 1986, four members were driving a car carrying explosives, apparently in an attempt to bomb the offices of SOS Racisme. However it exploded while they were still in it, killing all four of them.\n\nNeo-Nazi members of the French and European Nationalist Party were responsible for a pair of anti-immigrant terror bombings in 1988. Sonacotra hostels in Cagnes-sur-Mer and Cannes were bombed, killing Romanian immigrant George Iordachescu and injuring 16 people, mostly Tunisians. In an attempt to frame Jewish extremists for the Cagnes-sur-Mer bombing, the terrorists left leaflets bearing Stars of David and the name Masada at the scene, with the message \"To destroy Israel, Islam has chosen the sword. For this choice, Islam will perish.\"\n\nOn 28 May 2008, members of the neo-Nazi Nomad 88 group fired with machine guns at people from their car in Saint-Michel-sur-Orge.\n\nIn 2015, in the aftermath of the Charlie Hebdo shooting, six mosques and a restaurant were attacked in acts deemed as right-wing terrorism by authorities. The acts included grenade throwing, shooting, and use of an improvised explosive device.\n\nIn 1980, a right-wing terrorist attack in Munich, Germany killed the attacker and 12 other people, injuring 215. Fears of an ongoing campaign of major right-wing terrorist attacks did not materialize.\n\nIn addition to several bank robberies, the German National Socialist Underground was responsible for the Bosphorus serial murders (2000–2006), the 2004 Cologne bombing and the murder of policewoman Michéle Kiesewetter in 2007. In November 2011, two members of the National Socialist Underground committed suicide after a bank robbery and a third member was arrested some days later.\n\nRight-wing extremist offenses in Germany rose sharply in 2015 and 2016. Figures from the German government tallied 316 violent xenophobic offences in 2014 and 612 such offenses in 2015.\n\nIn August 2014, a group of four Germans founded a Munich-based far-right terrorist group, the . The group, which held racist, antisemitic, and anti-Muslim views, eventually attracted 30 members. They stockpiled weapons and explosives and plotted to attack a refugee shelter in Saxony, but the group's leaders were arrested in May 2015 before carrying out the attack. In March 2017 four of the group's leaders were sentenced to prison terms. The perpetrator of the 2016 Munich shooting also had far-right views.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, Italy endured the Years of Lead, a period characterized by frequent terrorist attacks: between 1969 and 1982, the nation suffered 8,800 terrorist attacks, in which a total of 351 people were killed and 768 were injured. The terrorist attacks have been both ascribed to the far-left and the far-right, yet a lot of terrorist attacks remain without a clear culprit and a lot of people have claimed the authorship of them is to be ascribed to rogue members of the Italian secret service. Even some of the terrorist attacks ascribed to a particular political group may be in reality the work of these rogue agents: this has been claimed, among many others, by Francesco Cossiga, who was the President of the Italian Republic during the years of lead, and by Giulio Andreotti, who, during the same period of time held the Prime Minister office more than once.\n\nThe Years of Lead are considered to have begun with the Piazza Fontana bombing in Milan in December 1969, perpetrated by Ordine Nuovo, a right-wing neofascist group. Sixteen people were killed, and 90 injured, in the bombing.\n\nIn July 1970, this same group carried out a bombing on a train going from Rome to Messina, killing six and wounding almost 100. The group also carried out the Piazza della Loggia bombing in 1974, killing eight antifascist activists. Perhaps the most infamous right-wing terrorist attack in post-war Italy is the August 1980 Bologna bombing, in which neo-fascist Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari (\"Armed Revolutionary Nuclei\"), an Ordine Nuovo offshoot, killed 85 people and injured 200 at the Bologna railroad station. Valerio Fioravanti, Francesca Mambro, and two others were convicted of mass murder in the attacks, although both have always denied any connection with them.\n\nIn December 2011, a gunman targeted Senegalese peddlers in Florence, killing two and injuring three others before killing himself. The perpetrator was a sympathizer of CasaPound, which is a neo-fascist party that Italian judges have recognized as not posing a threat to public or private safety.\n\nOn July 22, 2011, Norwegian right-wing extremist with Nazi and fascist sympathies, Anders Behring Breivik, carried out the 2011 Norway attacks, the largest mass killing of people in Norway by a single person during peacetime, excluding use of bombs. First he bombed several government buildings in Oslo, killing eight people and injuring more than 30. After the bombings, he went to Utøya island in a fake police uniform and began firing on people attending a political youth camp for the Worker's Youth League (AUF), a left-wing political party, killing 68 and injuring more than 60.\n\nDespite the country being nearly ethnically and religiously homogenous, Polish far-right targets, via propaganda or physical violence, religious and ethnic minorities such as Jews, Romani people, people with darker complexion or Middle Eastern appearance. In 1991, an anti-Romani pogrom broke out in Mława. During the UEFA Euro 2012, Polish hooligans targeted random Russian football supporters. There have been reports of hate crimes targeting the Muslim minority in Poland. Far-right and right-wing populist political parties and organizations fuel fear and hatred towards Islam and Muslims. Hate crimes such as arson and physical violence have occurred in Poland (despite having a Muslim population of only 0.1%, that is 30,000 out of 38 million). In 2016, police arrested a man who they say tried to burn down a mosque in Gdansk. The man belonged to the neo-nazi group called Blood & Honour.\n\nThe Savior was a neo-Nazi militant nationalist organization which claimed credit for the August 2006 Moscow market bombing, which killed 13. Media reports indicate that the market, located near Cherkizovsky, was targeted due to its high volume of Central Asian and Caucasian clientele. Four members of The Saviour were sentenced to life imprisonment, while four others received lesser prison terms.\n\nOn 22 April 2017, A gunman 'with hatred for ethnic minorities' shot and killed two people in an attack in a Federal Security Service office in the Russian city of Khabarovsk. The gunman was also killed. The Russian Federal Security Service says the native 18-year-old perpetrator was a known member of a neo-nazi group.\n\nBoth the 2009–10 Malmö shootings and the Trollhättan school attack were conducted by right-wing terrorists along with a refugee centre bombing in 2017. A notable serial killer motivated by far-right motives is John Ausonius. Far-rightists were also responsible for attacking an anti-racist demonstration in Stockholm in December 2013.\n\nIn April 1999, David Copeland, a neo-Nazi, planted a series of nail bombs over 13 days. His attacks, which were aimed at London's black, Bangladeshi and gay communities, resulted in three dead and more than 100 injured. Copeland was a former member of two far right political groups, the British National Party (BNP) and the National Socialist Movement. Copeland told police, \"My aim was political. It was to cause a racial war in this country. There'd be a backlash from the ethnic minorities, then all the white people will go out and vote BNP.\"\n\nIn July 2007, Robert Cottage, a former BNP member, was convicted for possessing explosive chemicals in his home – described by police at the time of his arrest as the largest amount of chemical explosive of its type ever found in that country. In June 2008, Martyn Gilleard, a British Nazi sympathizer, was jailed after police found nail bombs, bullets, swords, axes and knives in his flat. Also in 2008, Nathan Worrell was found guilty of possession of material for terrorist purposes and racially aggravated harassment. He was described by anti-terror police as a \"dangerous individual\". The court heard that police found books and manuals containing \"recipes\" to make bombs and detonators using household items, such as weedkiller, at Worrell's flat. In July 2009, Neil Lewington was planning on waging a terror campaign using weapons made from tennis balls and weedkiller against those he classified as \"non British\".\n\nIn 2012, the British Home Affairs Committee warned of the threat of far right terrorism in the UK, claiming it had heard \"persuasive evidence\" about the potential danger and cited the growth of similar threats across Europe.\n\nMembers of Combat 18 (C18), a neo-Nazi organisation based on the concept of \"leaderless resistance\", have been suspected in numerous deaths of immigrants, non-whites and other C18 members. Between 1998 and 2000, dozens of members were arrested. A group calling itself the Racial Volunteer Force split from C18 in 2002, retaining close links to its parent organization. Some journalists believed that the White Wolves were a C18 splinter group, alleging that the group had been set up by Del O'Connor, the former second-in-command of C18 and member of Skrewdriver Security. C18 attacks on immigrants continued through 2009. Weapons, ammunition and explosives were seized by police in the UK and almost every country in which C18 was active.\n\nIn 2016, Jo Cox, the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Batley and Spen constituency was murdered by Thomas Mair, who was motivated by far-right political views and had connections to several far-right organisations in the UK, US, and South Africa.\n\nOn 16 December 2016 Home Secretary Amber Rudd designated the far-right, neo-Nazi National Action group as a terrorist organisation which criminalises membership or support for the organisation. On 12 June 2018, Jack Renshaw, 23, a former spokesperson for National Action, admitted in a guilty plea to buying a 48 cm (19 in) replica RomanGladius sword (often wrongly referred to in the media as a machete) to murder Rosie Cooper, the Member of Parliament (MP) for the West Lancashire constituency.\n\nIn March 2018 Mark Rowley, the outgoing head of UK counter-terror policing, revealed that four far-right terror plots had been foiled since the Westminster attack in March 2017.\n\nBritish far-right activists supplied funds and weaponry to Loyalist terrorist groups in Northern Ireland during the Troubles. Following the Good Friday Agreement some members of Loyalist groups orchestrated racist attacks in Northern Ireland, including pipe bomb and gun attacks on the homes of immigrants. As a result, Northern Ireland has a higher proportion of racist attacks than other parts of the UK, and was branded the \"race-hate capital of Europe\".\n\nIn August 2016 Phillip Galea was charged with several terrorist offences. Galea had conducted \"surveillance\" of \"left-wing premises\" and planned to carry out bombings. Explosive ingredients were found at his home. Galea had links with organisations such as Combat 18 and the United Patriots Front.\nIn 2017 the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" reported on the conviction of neo-Nazi Michael James Holt, 26 who had threatened to carry out a mass shooting attack and considered Westfield Tuggerah as a target. He had manufactured home-made guns, knuckle dusters and slingshots in his grandfather's garage. Raids on his mother's home and a hotel room discovered more weapons including several firearms, slingshots and knuckle dusters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "999666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=999666", "title": "Satiric misspelling", "text": "Satiric misspelling\n\nA satiric misspelling is an intentional misspelling of a word, phrase or name for a rhetorical purpose. This is often done by replacing a letter with another letter (for example, \"k\" replacing \"c\"), or symbol (for example, \"$\" replacing \"s\", \"@\" replacing \"a\", or \"¢\" replacing \"c\"). Satiric misspelling is found particularly in informal writing on the Internet, but can also be found in some serious political writing that opposes the status quo.\nReplacing the letter \"c\" with \"k\" in the first letter of a word came into use by the Ku Klux Klan during its early years in the mid-to-late 19th century. The concept is continued today within the group.\nIn the 1960s and early 1970s in the United States, leftists, particularly the Yippies, sometimes used \"Amerika\" rather than \"America\" in referring to the United States. It is still used as a political statement today. It is likely that this was originally an allusion to the German spelling of the word, and intended to be suggestive of Nazism, a hypothesis that the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" supports.\n\nIn broader usage, the replacement of the letter \"c\" with \"k\" denotes general political skepticism about the topic at hand and is intended to discredit or debase the term in which the replacement occurs.\n\nA similar usage in Italian, Spanish, Catalan and Portuguese is to write \"okupa\" rather than \"ocupa\" (often on a building or area occupied by squatters, referring to the name adopted by \"okupación\" activist groups), which is particularly remarkable because the letter \"k\" is not part of the Spanish, Portuguese or Italian alphabets. It stems from a combination of English borrow words with k in them to those languages, and Spanish anarchist and punk movements which used \"k\" to signal rebellion.\n\nReplacing \"c\" with \"k\" was at the centre of a Monty Python joke from the Travel Agent sketch. Eric Idle has an affliction that makes him pronounce the letter C as a B, as in \"bolour\" instead of \"colour.\" Michael Palin asks him if he can say the letter K? Idle replies that he can, and Palin suggests that he spell words with a K instead of C. Idle replies, \"what, spell bolour with a K? Kolour. Oh! I never thought of that before! What a silly bunt!\"\n\nThe video game franchise Mortal Kombat is another example of this trend.\n\nA common satiric usage of the letters \"KKK\" is the spelling of \"America\" as \"Amerikkka\", alluding to the Ku Klux Klan, drawing to a perceived notion of an underlying or inherent racism in American society. The earliest known usage of \"Amerikkka\" recorded in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is in 1970, in a journal called \"Black World\". Presumably, this was an extrapolation from the then already widespread \"Amerika\".\n\nThe spelling \"Amerikkka\" came into greater use after the 1990 release of the gangsta rap album \"AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted\" by Ice Cube, also used by rapper Spice 1 for his album \"AmeriKKKa's Nightmare\" and by shock rock band Undercover Slut for their album \"Amerikkka Macht Frei\".\n\nThe letters \"KKK\" have been inserted into several other words and names, to indicate similar perceived racism, oppression or corruption. Examples include:\n\nThe dollar sign ($) can be inserted in the place of the letter \"S\", the euro sign (€) in place of \"e\", the yen (¥) sign in place of \"Y\", the won (₩) sign in place of \"W\", or the pound (£) sign in place of \"L,\" or the rupee sign (₹) in place of \"R\" to indicate plutocracy, greed, corruption, or the perceived immoral, unethical, or pathological accumulation of money. For example:\n\nSince at least 1980, people have used the \"at sign\" (\"@\") as a representation of the circled letter A. This has been extended to substituting it for the letter \"A\" as in the Crass fanzine \"Toxic Gr@fity\".\n\nIn Spanish, it became informally common (but not accepted by the RAE, due to @ being a symbol and not a letter) to use @ in place of \"o/a\" to denote both genders. For example, \"señorit@\" can be used to mean \"señorita and/or señorito\" instead of using \"señorita/o.\"\n\nOccasionally a word written in its orthodox spelling is altered with internal capital letters, hyphens, italics, or other devices so as to highlight a fortuitous pun. Some examples:\n\nAlong the same lines, intentional misspellings can be used to promote a specific negative attribute, real or perceived, of a product or service. This is especially effective if the misspelling is done by replacing part of the word with another that has identical phonetic qualities.\n\nSome place names are also spelled differently in order to emphasize some political view. For instance, \"Brasil\" (the Portuguese spelling of \"Brazil\"), is sometimes misconstrued as a typo for \"Brazil\" in English texts. Alternatively, the English spelling \"Brazil\" is used in Portuguese pieces of text as a way to denote anti-Americanism or anti-globalization sentiment.\n\nJournalists may make a politicized editorial decision by choosing to differentially retain (or even create) misspellings, mispronunciations, ungrammaticisms, dialect variants, or interjections.\n\nPlays on acronyms and initialisms are also common, when the full name is spelled out but one of the component words is replaced by another. For example, Richard Stallman and other Free Software Foundation executives often refer to digital rights management as \"digital restrictions management\", a reference to the tendency for DRM to stifle the end user's ability to reshare music or write CDs more than a certain number of times. Likewise, the National Security Agency is often referred to as the \"National Surveillance Agency\" and sometimes \"National Socialist Agency\" by opponents of its PRISM program, who view it as dystopian encroachment on personal privacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "208697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208697", "title": "Social credit", "text": "Social credit\n\nSocial credit is an interdisciplinary distributive philosophy developed by C. H. Douglas (1879–1952), a British engineer who published a book by that name in 1924. It encompasses economics, political science, history, and accounting. Its policies are designed, according to Douglas, to disperse economic and political power to individuals. Douglas wrote, \"Systems were made for men, and not men for systems, and the interest of man which is self-development, is above all systems, whether theological, political or economic.\" Douglas said that Social Crediters want to build a new civilization based upon \"absolute economic security\" for the individual, where \"they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make them afraid.\" In his words, \"what we really demand of existence is not that we shall be put into somebody else's Utopia, but we shall be put in a position to construct a Utopia of our own.\"\n\nIt was while he was reorganising the work at Farnborough, during World War I, that Douglas noticed that the weekly total costs of goods produced was greater than the sums paid to individuals for wages, salaries and dividends. This seemed to contradict the theory of classic Ricardian economics, that all costs are distributed simultaneously as purchasing power. Troubled by the seeming difference between the way money flowed and the objectives of industry (\"delivery of goods and services\", in his opinion), Douglas decided to apply engineering methods to the economic system.\n\nDouglas collected data from more than a hundred large British businesses and found that in nearly every case, except that of companies becoming bankrupt, the sums paid out in salaries, wages and dividends were always less than the total costs of goods and services produced each week: consumers did not have enough income to buy back what they had made. He published his observations and conclusions in an article in the magazine \"The English Review\", where he suggested: \"That we are living under a system of accountancy which renders the delivery of the nation's goods and services to itself a technical impossibility.\" He later formalized this observation in his A+B theorem. Douglas proposed to eliminate this difference between total prices and total incomes by augmenting consumers' purchasing power through a National Dividend and a Compensated Price Mechanism.\n\nAccording to Douglas, the true purpose of production is consumption, and production must serve the genuine, freely expressed interests of consumers. In order to accomplish this objective, he believed that each citizen should have a beneficial, not direct, inheritance in the communal capital conferred by complete access to consumer goods assured by the National Dividend and Compensated Price. Douglas thought that consumers, fully provided with adequate purchasing power, will establish the policy of production through exercise of their monetary vote. In this view, the term economic democracy does not mean worker control of industry, but democratic control of credit. Removing the policy of production from banking institutions, government, and industry, social credit envisages an \"aristocracy of producers, serving and accredited by a democracy of consumers.\"\n\nThe policy proposals of social credit attracted widespread interest in the decades between the world wars of the twentieth century because of their relevance to economic conditions of the time. Douglas called attention to the excess of production capacity over consumer purchasing power, an observation that was also made by John Maynard Keynes in his book, \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money\". While Douglas shared some of Keynes' criticisms of classical economics, his unique remedies were disputed and even rejected by most economists and bankers of the time. Remnants of social credit still exist within social credit parties throughout the world, but not in the purest form originally advanced by Douglas.\n\nDouglas disagreed with classical economists who recognised only three factors of production: land, labour and capital. While Douglas did not deny the role of these factors in production, he considered the “cultural inheritance of society” as the primary factor. He defined cultural inheritance as the knowledge, techniques and processes that have accrued to us incrementally from the origins of civilization (i.e. progress). Consequently, mankind does not have to keep \"reinventing the wheel\". \"We are merely the administrators of that cultural inheritance, and to that extent the cultural inheritance is the property of all of us, without exception. Adam Smith, David Ricardo and Karl Marx claimed that labour creates all value. While Douglas did not deny that all costs ultimately relate to labour charges of some sort (past or present), he denied that the present labour of the world creates all wealth. Douglas carefully distinguished between value, costs and prices. He claimed that one of the factors resulting in a misdirection of thought in terms of the nature and function of money was economists' near-obsession about values and their relation to prices and incomes. While Douglas recognized \"value in use\" as a legitimate theory of values, he also considered values as subjective and not capable of being measured in an objective manner. Thus he rejected the idea of the role of money as a standard, or measure, of value. Douglas believed that money should act as a medium of communication by which consumers direct the distribution of production.\n\nClosely associated with the concept of cultural inheritance as a factor of production is the social credit theory of economic sabotage. While Douglas believed the cultural heritage factor of production is primary in increasing wealth, he also believed that economic sabotage is the primary factor decreasing it. The word wealth derives from the Old English word \"wela\", or \"well-being\", and Douglas believed that all production should increase personal well-being. Therefore, production that does not directly increase personal well-being is waste, or economic sabotage.\nThe economic effect of charging all the waste in industry to the consumer so curtails his purchasing power that an increasing percentage of the product of industry must be exported. The effect of this on the worker is that he has to do many times the amount of work which should be necessary to keep him in the highest standard of living, as a result of an artificial inducement to produce things he does not want, which he cannot buy, and which are of no use to the attainment of his internal standard of well-being.\nBy modern methods of accounting, the consumer is forced to pay for all the costs of production, including waste. The economic effect of charging the consumer with all waste in industry is that the consumer is forced to do much more work than is necessary. Douglas believed that wasted effort could be directly linked to confusion in regards to the purpose of the economic system, and the belief that the economic system exists to provide employment in order to distribute goods and services.\nBut it may be advisable to glance at some of the proximate causes operating to reduce the return for effort ; and to realise the origin of most of the specific instances, it must be borne in mind that the existing economic system distributes goods and services through the same agency which induces goods and services, i.e., payment for work in progress. In other words, if production stops, distribution stops, and, as a consequence, a clear incentive exists to produce useless or superfluous articles in order that useful commodities already existing may be distributed. This perfectly simple reason is the explanation of the increasing necessity of what has come to be called economic sabotage ; the colossal waste of effort which goes on in every walk of life quite unobserved by the majority of people because they are so familiar with it ; a waste which yet so over-taxed the ingenuity of society to extend it that the climax of war only occurred in the moment when a culminating exhibition of organised sabotage was necessary to preserve the system from spontaneous combustion.\nDouglas claimed there were three possible policy alternatives with respect to the economic system:\n1. The first of these is that it is a disguised Government, of which the primary, though admittedly not the only, object is to impose upon the world a system of thought and action.\n\n2. The second alternative has a certain similarity to the first, but is simpler. It assumes that the primary objective of the industrial system is the provision of employment.\n\n3. And the third, which is essentially simpler still, in fact, so simple that it appears entirely unintelligible to the majority, is that the object of the industrial system is merely to provide goods and services.\nDouglas believed that it was the third policy alternative upon which an economic system should be based, but confusion of thought has allowed the industrial system to be governed by the first two objectives. If the purpose of our economic system is to deliver the maximum amount of goods and services with the least amount of effort, then the ability to deliver goods and services with the least amount of employment is actually desirable. Douglas proposed that unemployment is a logical consequence of machines replacing labour in the productive process, and any attempt to reverse this process through policies designed to attain full employment directly sabotages our cultural inheritance. Douglas also believed that the people displaced from the industrial system through the process of mechanization should still have the ability to consume the fruits of the system, because he suggested that we are all inheritors of the cultural inheritance, and his proposal for a national dividend is directly related to this belief.\n\nDouglas criticized classical economics because many of the theories are based upon a barter economy, whereas the modern economy is a monetary one. Initially, money originated from the productive system, when cattle owners punched leather discs which represented a head of cattle. These discs could then be exchanged for corn, and the corn producers could then exchange the disc for a head of cattle at a later date. The word “pecuniary\" comes from the Latin \"pecunia\", originally and literally meaning \"cattle\" (related to \"pecus\", meaning \"beast\"). Today, the productive system and the monetary system are two separate entities. Douglas demonstrated that loans create deposits, and presented mathematical proof in his book \"Social Credit\". Bank credit comprises the vast majority of money, and is created every time a bank makes a loan. Douglas was also one of the first to understand the creditary nature of money. The word credit derives from the Latin \"credere\", meaning \"to believe\". \"The essential quality of money, therefore, is that a man shall believe that he can get what he wants by the aid of it.\"\n\nAccording to economists, money is a medium of exchange. Douglas argued that this may have once been the case when the majority of wealth was produced by individuals who subsequently exchanged it with each other. But in modern economies, division of labour splits production into multiple processes, and wealth is produced by people working in association with each other. For instance, an automobile worker does not produce any wealth (i.e., the automobile) by himself, but only in conjunction with other auto workers, the producers of roads, gasoline, insurance, etc.\n\nIn this opinion, wealth is a pool upon which people can draw, and money becomes a ticketing system. The efficiency gained by individuals cooperating in the productive process was named by Douglas as the \"unearned increment of association\" – historic accumulations of which constitute what Douglas called the cultural heritage. The means of drawing upon this pool is money distributed by the banking system.\n\nDouglas believed that money should not be regarded as a commodity but rather as a ticket, a means of distribution of production. \"There are two sides to this question of a ticket representing something that we can call, if we like, a value. There is the ticket itself – the money which forms the thing we call 'effective demand' – and there is something we call a price opposite to it.\" Money is effective demand, and the means of reclaiming that money are prices and taxes. As real capital replaces labour in the process of modernization, money should become increasingly an instrument of distribution. The idea that money is a medium of exchange is related to the belief that all wealth is created by the current labour of the world, and Douglas clearly rejected this belief, stating that the cultural inheritance of society is the primary factor in the creation of wealth, which makes money a distribution mechanism, not a medium of exchange.\n\nDouglas also claimed the problem of production, or scarcity, had long been solved. The new problem was one of distribution. However; so long as orthodox economics makes scarcity a value, banks will continue to believe that they are creating value for the money they produce by making it scarce. Douglas criticized the banking system on two counts:\nThe former Douglas identified as being anti-social in policy. The latter he claimed was equivalent to claiming ownership of the nation. According to Douglas, money is merely an abstract representation of the real credit of the community, which is the ability of the community to deliver goods and services, when and where they are required.\n\nIn January 1919, \"A Mechanical View of Economics\" by C. H. Douglas was the first article to be published in the magazine \"New Age\", edited by Alfred Richard Orage, critiquing the methods by which economic activity is typically measured:\nIt is not the purpose of this short article to depreciate the services of accountants; in fact, under the existing conditions probably no body of men has done more to crystallise the data on which we carry on the business of the world; but the utter confusion of thought which has undoubtedly arisen from the calm assumption of the book-keeper and the accountant that he and he alone was in a position to assign positive or negative values to the quantities represented by his figures is one of the outstanding curiosities of the industrial system; and the attempt to mould the activities of a great empire on such a basis is surely the final condemnation of an out-worn method.\nIn 1920, Douglas presented the A + B theorem in his book, \"Credit-Power and Democracy\", in critique of accounting methodology pertinent to income and prices. In the fourth, Australian Edition of 1933, Douglas states:\nA factory or other productive organization has, besides its economic function as a producer of goods, a financial aspect – it may be regarded on the one hand as a device for the distribution of purchasing-power to individuals through the media of wages, salaries, and dividends; and on the other hand as a manufactory of prices – financial values. From this standpoint, its payments may be divided into two groups:\n\nNow the rate of flow of purchasing-power to individuals is represented by A, but since all payments go into prices, the rate of flow of prices cannot be less than A+B. The product of any factory may be considered as something which the public ought to be able to buy, although in many cases it is an intermediate product of no use to individuals but only to a subsequent manufacture; but since A will not purchase A+B; a proportion of the product at least equivalent to B must be distributed by a form of purchasing-power which is not comprised in the description grouped under A. It will be necessary at a later stage to show that this additional purchasing power is provided by loan credit (bank overdrafts) or export credit.\nBeyond empirical evidence, Douglas claims this deductive theorem demonstrates that total prices increase faster than total incomes when regarded as a flow.\n\nIn his pamphlet entitled \"The New and the Old Economics\", Douglas describes the cause of \"B\" payments:\nI think that a little consideration will make it clear that in this sense an overhead charge is any charge in respect of which the actual distributed purchasing power does not still exist, and that practically this means any charge created at a further distance in the past than the period of cyclic rate of circulation of money. There is no fundamental difference between tools and intermediate products, and the latter may therefore be included.\n\nIn 1932, Douglas estimated the cyclic rate of circulation of money to be approximately three weeks. The cyclic rate of circulation of money measures the amount of time required for a loan to pass through the productive system and return to the bank. This can be calculated by determining the amount of clearings through the bank in a year divided by the average amount of deposits held at the banks (which varies very little). The result is the number of times money must turnover in order to produce these clearing house figures. In a testimony before the Alberta Agricultural Committee of the Alberta Legislature in 1934, Douglas said:\nNow we know there are an increasing number of charges which originated from a period much anterior to three weeks, and included in those charges, as a matter of fact, are most of the charges made in, respect of purchases from one organization to another, but all such charges as capital charges (for instance, on a railway which was constructed a year, two years, three years, five or ten years ago, where charges are still extant), cannot be liquidated by a stream of purchasing power which does not increase in volume and which has a period of three weeks. The consequence is, you have a piling up of debt, you have in many cases a diminution of purchasing power being equivalent to the price of the goods for sale.\n\nAccording to Douglas, the major consequence of the problem he identified in his A+B theorem is exponentially increasing debt. Further, he believed that society is forced to produce goods that consumers either do not want or cannot afford to purchase. The latter represents a favorable balance of trade, meaning a country exports more than it imports. But not every country can pursue this objective at the same time, as one country must import more than it exports when another country exports more than it imports. Douglas proposed that the long-term consequence of this policy is a trade war, typically resulting in real war – hence, the social credit admonition, “He who calls for Full-Employment calls for War!”, expressed by the Social Credit Party of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, led by John Hargrave. The former represents excessive capital production and/or military build-up. Military buildup necessitates either the violent use of weapons or a superfluous accumulation of them.\nDouglas believed that excessive capital production is only a temporary correction, because the cost of the capital appears in the cost of consumer goods, or taxes, which will further exacerbate future gaps between income and prices.\nIn the first place, these capital goods have to be sold to someone. They form a reservoir of forced exports. They must, as intermediate products, enter somehow into the price of subsequent ultimate products and they produce a position of most unstable equilibrium, since the life of capital goods is in general longer than that of consumable goods, or ultimate products, and yet in order to meet the requirements for money to buy the consumable goods, the rate of production of capital goods must be continuously increased.\nThe replacement of labour by capital in the productive process implies that overhead charges (B) increase in relation to income (A), because \"'B' is the financial representation of the lever of capital”. As Douglas stated in his first article, \"The Delusion of Superproduction\":\nThe factory cost – not the selling price – of any article under our present industrial and financial system is made up of three main divisions-direct labor cost, material cost and overhead charges, the ratio of which varies widely, with the \"modernity\" of the method of production. For instance, a sculptor producing a work of art with the aid of simple tools and a block of marble has next to no overhead charges, but a very low rate of production, while a modern screw-making plant using automatic machines may have very high overhead charges and very low direct labour cost, or high rates of production.\n\nSince increased industrial output per individual depends mainly on tools and method, it may almost be stated as a law that intensified production means a progressively higher ratio of overhead charges to direct labour cost, and, apart from artificial reasons, this is simply an indication of the extent to which machinery replaces manual labour, as it should.\nIf overhead charges are constantly increasing relative to income, any attempt to stabilize or increase income results in increasing prices. If income is constant or increasing, and overhead charges are continuously increasing due to technological advancement, then prices, which equal income plus overhead charges, must also increase. Further, any attempt to stabilize or decrease prices must be met by decreasing incomes according to this analysis. As the Phillips Curve demonstrates, inflation and unemployment are trade-offs, unless prices are reduced from monies derived from outside the productive system. According to Douglas's A+B theorem, the systemic problem of increasing prices, or inflation, is not \"too much money chasing too few goods\", but is the increasing rate of overhead charges in production due to the replacement of labour by capital in industry combined with a policy of full employment. Douglas did not suggest that inflation cannot be caused by too much money chasing too few consumer goods, but according to his analysis this is not the only cause of inflation, and inflation is systemic according to the rules of cost accountancy given overhead charges are constantly increasing relative to income. In other words, inflation can exist even if consumers have insufficient purchasing power to buy back all of production. Douglas claimed that there were two limits which governed prices, a lower limit governed by the cost of production, and an upper limit governed by what an article will fetch on the open market. Douglas suggested that this is the reason why deflation is regarded as a problem in orthodox economics because bankers and businessmen were very apt to forget the lower limit of prices.\n\nDouglas proposed to eliminate the gap between purchasing power and prices by increasing consumer purchasing power with credits which do not appear in prices in the form of a price rebate and a dividend. Formally called a \"Compensated Price\" and a \"National (or Consumer) Dividend\", a National Credit Office would be charged with the task of calculating the size of the rebate and dividend by determining a national balance sheet, and calculating aggregate production and consumption statistics.\n\nThe price rebate is based upon the observation that the real cost of production is the mean rate of consumption over the mean rate of production for an equivalent period of time.\n\nwhere\n\n\nThe physical cost of producing something is the materials and capital that were consumed in its production, plus that amount of consumer goods labour consumed during its production. This total consumption represents the physical, or real, cost of production.\n\nwhere\n\nSince fewer inputs are consumed to produce a unit of output with every improvement in process, the real cost of production falls over time. As a result, prices should also decrease with the progression of time. \"As society's capacity to deliver goods and services is increased by the use of plant and still more by scientific progress, and decreased by the production, maintenance, or depreciation of it, we can issue credit, in costs, at a greater rate than the rate at which we take it back through prices of ultimate products, if capacity to supply individuals exceeds desire.\"\n\nBased on his conclusion that the real cost of production is less than the financial cost of production, the Douglas price rebate (Compensated Price) is determined by the ratio of consumption to production. Since consumption over a period of time is typically less than production over the same period of time in any industrial society, the real cost of goods should be less than the financial cost.\n\nFor example, if the money cost of a good is $100, and the ratio of consumption to production is 3/4, then the real cost of the good is $100(3/4) = $75. As a result, if a consumer spent $100 for a good, the National Credit Authority would rebate the consumer $25. The good costs the consumer $75, the retailer receives $100, and the consumer receives the difference of $25 via new credits created by the National Credit Authority.\n\nThe National Dividend is justified by the displacement of labour in the productive process due to technological increases in productivity. As human labour is increasingly replaced by machines in the productive process, Douglas believed people should be free to consume while enjoying increasing amounts of leisure, and that the Dividend would provide this freedom.\n\nCritics of the theorem, such as J. M. Pullen, Hawtrey and J. M. Keynes argue there is no difference between A and B payments. Other critics, such as Gary North, argue that social credit policies are inflationary. \"The A + B theorem has met with almost universal rejection from academic economists on the grounds that, although B payments may be made initially to “other organizations,” they will not necessarily be lost to the flow of available purchasing power. A and B payments overlap through time. Even if the B payments are received and spent before the finished product is available for purchase, current purchasing power will be boosted by B payments received in the current production of goods that will be available for purchase in the future.\"\n\nA. W. Joseph replied to this specific criticism in a paper given to the Birmingham Actuarial Society, \"Banking and Industry\":\nLet A1+B1 be the costs in a period to time of articles produced by factories making consumable goods divided up into A1 costs which refer to money paid to individuals by means of salaries, wages, dividends, etc., and B1 costs which refer to money paid to other institutions. Let A2, B2 be the corresponding costs of factories producing capital equipment. The money distributed to individuals is A1+A2 and the cost of the final consumable goods is A1+B1. If money in the hands of the public is to be equal to the costs of consumable articles produced then A1+A2 = A1+B1 and therefore A2=B1. Now modern science has brought us to the stage where machines are more and more taking the place of human labour in producing goods, i.e. A1 is becoming less important relatively to B1 and A2 less important relatively to B2.\nIn symbols if B1/A1 = k1 and B2/A2 = k2 both k1 and k2 are increasing.\n\nSince A2=B1 this means that (A2+B2)/(A1+B1)= (1+k2)*A2/(1+1/k1)*B1 = (1+k2)/(1+1/k1) which is increasing.\nThus in order that the economic system should keep working it is essential that capital goods should be produced in ever increasing quantity relatively to consumable goods. As soon as the ratio of capital goods to consumable goods slackens, costs exceed money distributed, i.e. the consumer is unable to purchase the consumable goods coming on the market.\"\nAnd in a reply to Dr. Hobson, Douglas restated his central thesis: \"To reiterate categorically, the theorem criticised by Mr. Hobson: the wages, salaries and dividends distributed during a given period do not, and cannot, buy the production of that period; that production can only be bought, i.e., distributed, under present conditions by a draft, and an increasing draft, on the purchasing power distributed in respect of future production, and this latter is mainly and increasingly derived from financial credit created by the banks.\"\n\nIncomes are paid to workers during a multi-stage program of production. According to the convention of accepted orthodox rules of accountancy, those incomes are part of the financial cost and price of the final product. For the product to be purchased with incomes earned in respect of its manufacture, all of these incomes would have to be saved until the product's completion. Douglas argued that incomes are typically spent on past production to meet the present needs of living, and will not be available to purchase goods completed in the future – goods which must include the sum of incomes paid out during their period of manufacture in their price. Consequently, this does not liquidate the financial cost of production inasmuch as it merely passes charges of one accountancy period on as mounting charges against future periods. In other words, according to Douglas, supply does not create enough demand to liquidate all the costs of production. Douglas denied the validity of Say's Law in economics.\n\nWhile John Maynard Keynes referred to Douglas as a \"private, perhaps, but not a major in the brave army of heretics\", he did state that Douglas \"is entitled to claim, as against some of his orthodox adversaries, that he at least has not been wholly oblivious of the outstanding problem of our economic system.\" While Keynes said that Douglas's A+B theorem \"includes much mere mystification\", he reaches a similar conclusion to Douglas when he states:\nThus the problem of providing that new capital-investment shall always outrun capital-disinvestment sufficiently to fill the gap between net income and consumption, presents a problem which is increasingly difficult as capital increases. New capital-investment can only take place in excess of current capital-disinvestment if future expenditure on consumption is expected to increase. Each time we secure to-day's equilibrium by increased investment we are aggravating the difficulty of securing equilibrium to-morrow.\nThe criticism that social credit policies are inflationary is based upon what economists call the quantity theory of money, which states that the quantity of money multiplied by its velocity of circulation equals total purchasing power. Douglas was quite critical of this theory stating, \"The velocity of the circulation of money in the ordinary sense of the phrase, is – if I may put it that way – a complete myth. No additional purchasing power at all is created by the velocity of the circulation of money. The rate of transfer from hand-to-hand, as you might say, of goods is increased, of course, by the rate of spending, but no more costs can be canceled by one unit of purchasing power than one unit of cost. Every time a unit of purchasing power passes through the costing system it creates a cost, and when it comes back again to the same costing system by the buying and transfer of the unit of production to the consuming system it may be cancelled, but that process is quite irrespective of what is called the velocity of money, so the categorical answer is that I do not take any account of the velocity of money in that sense.\" The Alberta Social Credit government published in a committee report what was perceived as an error in regards to this theory: \"The fallacy in the theory lies in the incorrect assumption that money 'circulates', whereas it is issued against production, and withdrawn as purchasing power as the goods are bought for consumption.\"\n\nOther critics argue that if the gap between income and prices exists as Douglas claimed, the economy would have collapsed in short order. They also argue that there are periods of time in which purchasing power is in excess of the price of consumer goods for sale.\n\nDouglas replied to these criticisms in his testimony before the Alberta Agricultural Committee:\nWhat people who say that forget is that we were piling up debt at that time at the rate of ten millions sterling a day and if it can be shown, and it can be shown, that we are increasing debt continuously by normal operation of the banking system and the financial system at the present time, then that is proof that we are not distributing purchasing power sufficient to buy the goods for sale at that time; otherwise we should not be increasing debt, and that is the situation.\nC.H. Douglas defined democracy as the “will of the people”, not rule by the majority, suggesting that social credit could be implemented by any political party supported by effective public demand. Once implemented to achieve a realistic integration of means and ends, party politics would cease to exist. Traditional ballot box democracy is incompatible with Social Credit, which assumes the right of individuals to choose freely one choice at a time, and to contract out of unsatisfactory associations. Douglas advocated what he called the “responsible vote”, where anonymity in the voting process would no longer exist. \"The individual voter must be made individually responsible, not collectively taxable, for his vote.\" Douglas believed that party politics should be replaced by a \"union of electors\" in which the only role of an elected official would be to implement the popular will. Douglas believed that the implementation of such a system was necessary as otherwise the government would be controlled by international financiers. Douglas also opposed the secret ballot arguing that it resulted in electoral irresponsibility, calling it a \"Jewish\" technique used to ensure Barabbas was freed leaving Christ to be crucified.\n\nDouglas considered the constitution an organism, not an organization. In this view, establishing the supremacy of common law is essential to ensure protection of individual rights from an all-powerful parliament. Douglas also believed the effectiveness of British government is determined structurally by application of a Christian concept known as Trinitarianism: \"In some form or other, sovereignty in the British Isles for the last two thousand years has been Trinitarian. Whether we look on this Trinitarianism under the names of King, Lords and Commons or as Policy, Sanctions and Administration, the Trinity-in-Unity has existed, and our national success has been greatest when the balance (never perfect) has been approached.\"\n\nOpposing the formation of Social Credit parties, C.H. Douglas believed a group of elected amateurs should never direct a group of competent experts in technical matters. While experts are ultimately responsible for achieving results, the goal of politicians should be to pressure those experts to deliver policy results desired by the populace. According to Douglas, \"the proper function of Parliament is to force all activities of a public nature to be carried on so that the individuals who comprise the public may derive the maximum benefit from them. Once the idea is grasped, the criminal absurdity of the party system becomes evident.\"\n\nC. H. Douglas was a civil engineer who pursued his higher education at Cambridge University. His early writings appeared most notably in the British intellectual journal \"The New Age\". The editor of that publication, Alfred Orage, devoted the magazines \"The New Age\" and later \"The New English Weekly\" to the promulgation of Douglas's ideas until his death on the eve of his BBC speech on social credit, 5 November 1934, in the \"Poverty in Plenty\" Series.\n\nDouglas’s first book, \"Economic Democracy\", was published in 1920, soon after his article \"The Delusion of Super-Production\" appeared in 1918 in the \"English Review\". Among Douglas’s other early works were \"The Control and Distribution of Production\", \"Credit-Power and Democracy\", \"Warning Democracy\" and \"The Monopoly of Credit\". Of considerable interest is the evidence he presented to the Canadian House of Commons Select Committee on Banking and Commerce in 1923, to the British Parliamentary Macmillan Committee on Finance and Industry in 1930, which included exchanges with economist John Maynard Keynes, and to the Agricultural Committee of the Alberta Legislature in 1934 during the term of the United Farmers of Alberta Government in that Canadian province.\n\nThe writings of C. H. Douglas spawned a worldwide movement, most prominent in the British Commonwealth, with a presence in Europe and activities in the United States where Orage, during his sojourn there, promoted Douglas’s ideas. In the United States, the New Democracy group was directed by the American author Gorham Munson who contributed a major book on social credit titled \"Aladdin’s Lamp: The Wealth of the American People\". While Canada and New Zealand had electoral successes with “social credit” political parties, the efforts in England and Australia were devoted primarily to pressuring existing parties to implement social credit. This function was performed especially by Douglas’s social credit secretariat in England and the Commonwealth Leagues of Rights in Australia. Douglas continued writing and contributing to the secretariat’s journals, initially \"Social Credit\" and soon thereafter \"The Social Crediter\" (which continues to be published by the Secretariat) for the remainder of his lifetime, concentrating more on political and philosophical issues during his later years.\n\nDuring early years of the philosophy, the management of the British Labour Party resisted pressure from some trade unionists to implement social credit, as hierarchical views of Fabian socialism, economic growth and full employment, were incompatible with the National Dividend and abolition of wage slavery suggested by Douglas. In an effort to discredit the social credit movement, one leading Fabian, Sidney Webb, is said to have declared that he didn’t care whether Douglas was technically correct or not – he simply did not like his policy.\n\nIn 1935 the world's first Social Credit government was elected in Alberta, Canada led by William Aberhart. A book by Maurice Colbourne, entitled \"The Meaning of Social Credit\", had convinced Aberhart that the theories of Major Douglas would facilitate for Alberta's recovery from the Great Depression. Aberhart added a heavy dose of fundamentalist Christianity to Douglas' theories, and the Canadian social credit movement, which was largely nurtured in Alberta, thus acquired a strong social conservative influence.\n\nDouglas was consulted by counselled the 1921-1935 United Farmers of Alberta provincial government in Alberta, but the UFA saw only difficulties in trying to bring in Social Credit. Douglas became an advisor to Aberhart, but withdrew after short time and never visited Alberta after 1935 due to strategic differences. Aberhart sought orthodox counsel with respect to the Province's finances, and the correspondence between them was published by Douglas in his book, \"The Alberta Experiment\".\n\nWhile Aberhart, the Premier, wanted to balance the provincial budget, Douglas argued the concept of a \"balanced budget\" was inconsistent with Social Credit principles. Douglas stated that, under existing rules of financial cost accountancy, balancing all budgets within an economy simultaneously is an arithmetic impossibility. In a letter to Aberhart, Douglas stated:\nThis seems to be a suitable occasion on which to emphasise the proposition that a Balanced Budget is quite inconsistent with the use of Social Credit (i.e., Real Credit – the ability to deliver goods and services 'as, when and where required') in the modern world, and is simply a statement in accounting figures that the progress of the country is stationary, i.e., that it consumes exactly what it produces, including capital assets. The result of the acceptance of this proposition is that all capital appreciation becomes quite automatically the property of those who create and issue of money [i.e., the banking system] and the necessary unbalancing of the Budget is covered by Debts.\nDouglas sent two social credit technical advisors from the United Kingdom, L. Denis Byrne and George F. Powell, to Alberta. But early attempts to pass social credit legislation were ruled \"ultra vires\" by the Supreme Court of Canada and/or the Privy Council in London. Drawing on the monetary theories of Silvio Gesell, William Aberhart issued a currency substitute known as prosperity certificates. These scrips intentionally depreciated in value the longer they were held, and Douglas openly criticized the idea:\nGesell's theory was that the trouble with the world was that people saved money so that what you had to do was to make them spend it faster. Disappearing money is the heaviest form of continuous taxation ever devised. The theory behind this idea of Gesell's was that what is required is to stimulate trade – that you have to get people frantically buying goods – a perfectly sound idea so long as the objective of life is merely trading.\nThey did provide spending power to many impoverished Albertans in the time they were in circulation.\n\nAberhart did bring in a measure of social credit, with the establishment of a government-owned banking system, the Alberta Treasury Branches, still in operation today and now the only government-owned bank in North America that serves the public.\n\nUnder Ernest Manning, who succeeded Aberhart after his death in 1943, the Alberta Social Credit Party soon departed from its origins and became popularly identified as a right wing populist party. In the Secretariat’s journal, \"An Act for the Better Management of the Credit of Alberta\", Douglas published a critical analysis of the Social Credit movement in Alberta, in which he said, \"The Manning administration is no more a Social Credit administration than the British government is Labour\". Manning accused Douglas and his followers of anti-Semitism, and purged \"Douglasites\" from the Alberta government. The British Columbia Social Credit Party won power in 1952 in the province to Alberta's west, but had little in common with Social Credit bank reform, Major Douglas or his theories.\n\nSocial credit parties also enjoyed some electoral success at the federal level in Canada. The Social Credit Party of Canada was initiated mostly by Albertans, and eventually created another base of support in Quebec. Social Credit also did well nationally in New Zealand, where it was the country's third party for almost 30 years.\n\nDouglas described Social Credit as \"the policy of a philosophy\", and warned against considering it solely as a scheme for monetary reform. He called this philosophy \"practical Christianity\" and stated that its central issue is the Incarnation. Douglas believed that there was a Canon which permeated the universe, and Jesus Christ was the Incarnation of this Canon. However, he also believed that Christianity remained ineffective so long as it remained transcendental. Religion, which derives from the Latin word \"religare\" (to “bind back”), was intended to be a binding back to reality. Social Credit is concerned with the incarnation of Christian principles in our organic affairs. Specifically, it is concerned with the principles of association and how to maximize the increments of association which redound to satisfaction of the individual in society – while minimizing any decrements of association.\nThe goal of Social Credit is to maximize immanent sovereignty. Social credit is consonant with the Christian doctrine of salvation through unearned grace, and is therefore incompatible with any variant of the doctrine of salvation through works. Works need not be of Purity in intent or of desirable consequence and in themselves alone are as \"filthy rags\". For instance, the present system makes destructive, obscenely wasteful wars a virtual certainty – which provides much \"work\" for everyone. Social credit has been called the Third Alternative to the futile Left-Right Duality.\n\nAlthough Douglas defined social credit as a philosophy with Christian origins, he did not envision a Christian theocracy. Douglas did not believe that religion should be mandated by law or external compulsion. Practical Christian society is Trinitarian in structure, based upon a constitution where the constitution is an organism changing in relation to our knowledge of the nature of the universe. \"The progress of human society is best measured by the extent of its creative ability. Imbued with a number of natural gifts, notably reason, memory, understanding and free will, man has learned gradually to master the secrets of nature, and to build for himself a world wherein lie the potentialities of peace, security, liberty and abundance.\" Douglas said that social crediters want to build a new civilization based upon absolute economic security for the individual – where “they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make them afraid.” In keeping with this goal, Douglas was opposed to all forms of taxation on real property. This set social credit at variance from the land-taxing recommendations of Henry George.\n\nSocial credit society recognizes the fact that the relationship between man and God is unique. In this view, it is essential to allow man the greatest possible freedom in order to pursue this relationship. Douglas defined freedom as the ability to choose and refuse one choice at a time, and to contract out of unsatisfactory associations. Douglas believed that if people were given the economic security and leisure achievable in the context of a social credit dispensation, most would end their service to Mammon and use their free time to pursue spiritual, intellectual or cultural goals resulting in self-development. Douglas opposed what he termed \"the pyramid of power\". Totalitarianism represents this pyramid and is the antithesis of social credit. It turns the government into an end instead of a means, and the individual into a means instead of an end – \"Demon est deus inversus\" – “the Devil is God upside down.” Social credit is designed to give the individual the maximum freedom allowable given the need for association in economic, political and social matters. Social Credit elevates the importance of the individual and holds that all institutions exist to serve the individual – that the State exists to serve its citizens, not that individuals exist to serve the State.\n\nDouglas emphasized that all policy derives from its respective philosophy and that “Society is primarily metaphysical, and must have regard to the organic relationships of its prototype.”\nSocial credit rejects dialectical materialistic philosophy. \"The tendency to argue from the particular to the general is a special case of the sequence from materialism to collectivism. If the universe is reduced to molecules, ultimately we can dispense with a catalogue and a dictionary; all things are the same thing, and all words are just sounds – molecules in motion.\"\n\nDouglas divided philosophy into two schools of thought that he termed the \"classical school\" and the \"modern school\", which are broadly represented by philosophies of Aristotle and Francis Bacon respectively. Douglas was critical of both schools of thought, but believed that \"the truth lies in appreciation of the fact that neither conception is useful without the other\".\n\nSocial crediters and Douglas have been criticized for spreading antisemitism. Douglas was critical of \"international Jewry\", especially in his later writings. He asserted that such Jews controlled many of the major banks and were involved in an international conspiracy to centralize the power of finance. Some people have claimed that Douglas was antisemitic because he was quite critical of pre-Christian philosophy. In his book \"Social Credit\", he wrote that, \"It is not too much to say that one of the root ideas through which Christianity comes into conflict with the conceptions of the Old Testament and the ideals of the pre-Christians' era is in respect of this dethronement of abstractionism.\"\n\nDouglas was opposed to abstractionist philosophies, because he believed that these philosophies inevitably resulted in the elevation of abstractions, such as the state, and legal fictions, such as corporate personhood, over the individual. He also believed that what Jews considered as abstractionist thought tended to encourage them to endorse communist ideals and an emphasis on collectives over individuals. John L. Finlay, in his book \"Social Credit: The English Origins\", wrote, \"Anti-Semitism of the Douglas kind, if it can be called anti-Semitism at all, may be fantastic, may be dangerous even, in that it may be twisted into a dreadful form, but it is not itself vicious nor evil.\"\n\nIn her book \"Social Discredit: Anti-Semitism, Social Credit and the Jewish Response\", Janine Stingel writes that \"Douglas' economic and political doctrines were wholly dependent on an anti-Semitic conspiracy theory.\" John L. Finlay disagrees with Stingel's assertion and argues that, \"It must also be noted that while Douglas was critical of some aspects of Jewish thought, Douglas did not seek to discriminate against Jews as a people or race. It was never suggested that the National Dividend be withheld from them.\"\n\n\nFederal political parties:\n\nProvincial political parties:\n\nOrganizations:\n\n\n\n\n\nAs lack of finance has been a constant impediment to the development of the arts and literature, the concept of economic democracy through social credit had immediate appeal in literary circles. Names associated with social credit include C.M. Grieve, Charlie Chaplin, William Carlos Williams, Ezra Pound, T. S. Eliot, Herbert Read, Aldous Huxley, Storm Jameson, Eimar O'Duffy, Sybil Thorndyke, Bonamy Dobrée, Eric de Maré and the American publisher James Laughlin. Hilaire Belloc and GK Chesterton espoused similar ideas. In 1933 Eimar O'Duffy published \"Asses in Clover\", a science fiction fantasy exploration of social credit themes. His social credit economics book \"Life and Money: Being a Critical Examination of the Principles and Practice of Orthodox Economics with A Practical Scheme to End the Muddle it has made of our Civilisation\", was endorsed by Douglas.\n\nRobert A. Heinlein described a social credit economy in his posthumously-published first novel, \"\", and his \"Beyond This Horizon\" describes a similar system in less detail. In Heinlein's future society, government is not funded by taxation. Instead, government controls the currency and prevents inflation by providing a price rebate to participating business and a guaranteed income to every citizen.\n\nIn his novel \"The Trick Top Hat\", part of his \"Schrödinger's Cat Trilogy\", Robert Anton Wilson described the implementation by the President of an alternate future United States of an altered form of social credit, in which the government issues a National Dividend to all citizens in the form of \"trade aids,\" which can be spent like money but which cannot be lent at interest (in order to mollify the banking industry) and which eventually expire (to prevent inflation and hoarding).\n\nMore recently, Richard C. Cook, an analyst for the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Food and Drug Administration, NASA, the U.S. Treasury Department, and author of the books \"Challenger Revealed\" and \"We Hold These Truths\", has written several articles relating to social credit and monetary reform at Global Research, an independent research and media group of writers, scholars, journalists and activists. Frances Hutchinson, Chairperson of the Social Credit Secretariat, has co-authored, with Brian Burkitt, a book entitled \"The Political Economy of Social Credit and Guild Socialism\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "962149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962149", "title": "Thick line", "text": "Thick line\n\nThe thick line policy (Polish: gruba kreska, \"thick stroke\", or gruba linia, \"thick line\") was the term used by prime minister of Poland, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, in his first parliamentary speech in Sejm, in 1989.\n\nHe said, \"We split away the history of our recent past with \"a thick line\". We will be responsible only for what we have done to help extract Poland from her current predicament, from now on\". (\"Przeszłość odkreślamy grubą linią. Odpowiadać będziemy jedynie za to, co uczyniliśmy, by wydobyć Polskę z obecnego stanu załamania.\")\n\nIn more recent years, his intentions were considered by many people, and his \"gruba kreska\" is often understood as a policy of nonpunishment for crimes committed by the communist regime of pre-1989 Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "300545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300545", "title": "Two-step flow of communication", "text": "Two-step flow of communication\n\nThe two-step flow of communication model says that most people form their opinions under the influence of opinion leaders, who in turn are influenced by the mass media. In contrast to the one-step flow of the hypodermic needle model or magic bullet theory, which holds that people are directly influenced by mass media, according to the two-step flow model, ideas flow from mass media to opinion leaders, and from them to a wider population. Opinion leaders pass on their own interpretation of information in addition to the actual media content.\n\nThe theory is based on a 1940s study on social influence that states that media effects are indirectly established through the personal influence of opinion leaders. The majority of people receive much of their information and are influenced by the media secondhand, through the personal influence of opinion leaders.\n\nThe two-step model says that most people are not directly influenced by mass media, and instead form their opinions based on opinion leaders who interpret media messages and put them into context. Opinion leaders are those initially exposed to a specific media content, and who interpret it based on their own opinion. They then begin to infiltrate these opinions through the general public who become \"opinion followers\". These \"opinion leaders\" gain their influence through more elite media as opposed to mainstream mass media. In this process, social influence is created and adjusted by the ideals and opinions of each specific \"elite media\" group, and by these media group's opposing ideals and opinions and in combination with popular mass media sources. Therefore, the leading influence in these opinions is primarily a social persuasion.\n\nThe two-step flow of communication model hypothesizes that ideas flow from mass media to opinion leaders, and from them to a wider population. It was first introduced by sociologist Paul Lazarsfeld \"et al.\" in 1944 and elaborated by Elihu Katz and Lazarsfeld in 1955 and subsequent publications. Lowery and DeFleur argue the book was much more than a simple research report: it was an effort to interpret the authors' research within a framework of conceptual schemes, theoretical issues, and research findings drawn broadly from the scientific study of small groups Unlike the hypodermic needle model, which considers mass media effects to be direct, the two-step flow model stresses human agency.\n\nFor example, in the field of science communication, Matthew Nisbet describes the use of opinion leaders as intermediaries between scientists and the public as a way to reach the public via trained individuals who are more closely engaged with their communities, such as \"teachers, business leaders, attorneys, policymakers, neighborhood leaders, students, and media professionals.\" Examples of initiatives that take this approach include Science & Engineering Ambassadors, sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences, and Science Booster Clubs, coordinated by the National Center for Science Education.\n\nAccording to Lazarsfeld and Katz, mass media information is channeled to the \"masses\" through opinion leadership. The people with most access to media, and having a more literate understanding of media content, explain and diffuse the content to others.\n\nBased on the two-step flow hypothesis, the term \"personal influence\" came to illustrate the process intervening between the media's direct message and the audience's reaction to that message. Opinion leaders tend to be similar to those they influence—based on personality, interests, demographics, or socio-economic factors. These leaders tend to influence others to change their attitudes and behaviors. The two-step theory refined the ability to predict how media messages influence audience behavior and explains why certain media campaigns do not alter audiences' attitudes. This hypothesis provided a basis for the two-step flow theory of mass communication.\n\nIn the times of digital social media, the more than six decade old theory sparks much new interest. The fact that massive databases are being used to send tailor-made messages to individuals lead back to the idea of a \"one-step flow of communication\". The idea is a kind of Hypodermic needle / magic bullet model, with the capacity of big data analytics informed mass customization. Empirical studies by other scholars, in contrast, have found that modern social media platforms, like Twitter, exhibit clear evidence of a two-step flow of communication (see Figure). Many social media users obtain their news from celebrities or other amplifying opinion leaders, who again get informed by mass media or by individuals with specific insights. The fine-grained digital footprint of social media also suggests that there are more than simply the one-step and two-step modes of communication flow, leading the search for more complex Multistep Flow Models based on distinct network structures.\n\nPaul Lazarsfeld and Elihu Katz are considered to be the founders of functional theory and their book \"Personal Influence\" (1955) is considered to be the handbook to the theory.\n\nOne of the first to embark on Communications research, was the first to introduce the difference between 'administrative research' and 'critical research' in regards to the media. Critical research he believed, criticizes the media institutions themselves for the perspective ways they serve dominant social groups. Critical research favors interperspective and inductive methods of inquiry.\n\nLazarsfeld's study of the 1940 presidential election was published as \"The People's Choice\" (1944). During the research revealed information about the psychological and social processes that influence voting decisions. The study also uncovered an influence process that Lazarsfeld called \"opinion leadership.\" He concluded that there is a multistep flow of information from the mass media to persons who serve as opinion leaders which then is passed on to the general public. He called this communication process the \"two-step flow of communication\".\n\nElihu Katz was a professor in the School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania when he collaborated with Lazarsfeld in 1955. Their research aimed to observe the flow of influence at the intersections of mass and interpersonal communication and resulted in the book \"Personal Influence\". Katz pursued Lazarfeld's research in a study of the flow of information, which is the basis of \"Personal Influence\". Katz and Lazarsfeld concluded that:\n\"... the traditional image of the mass persuasion process must make room for 'people' as intervening factors between the stimuli of the media and resultant opinions, decisions, and actions.\"\n\nThe presidential election of 1940 saw President Franklin Roosevelt seek an unprecedented third term in office. Funded by grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, Life magazine, and the pollster Elmo Roper, Columbia's Office of Radio Research conducted a study of voting. It was based on a panel study of 2,400 voters in Erie County, Ohio. Paul Lazarsfeld, Bernard Berelson, and Hazel Gaudet supervised 15 interviewers, who from May–October interviewed the strategically selected 2,400 members of the community several different times in order to document their decision making process during the campaign. They focused on what factors would influence their decisions as the campaign progressed.\n\"The People's Choice\", a book based on this study presented the theory of \"the two-step flow of communications\", which later came to be associated with the so-called \"limited effects model\" of mass media: the idea that ideas often flow from radio and print to local \"opinion leaders\" who in turn pass them on to those with more limited political knowledge, or \"opinion followers.\" The results of the research led to the conclusion that sometimes person to person communication can be more effective than traditional media outlets such as newspapers, TV, radio etc. This idea developed further in the book \"Personal Influence\".\n\nIn 1944, Paul Lazarsfeld contacted McFadden Publications in regards to his first book, \"The People's Choice\". The two collaborated forming a mutually beneficial partnership in which Macfadden saw a way to financially profit from advertising to the female population and Lazarsfeld saw a way to gain more information on social influence. Out of this came the study conducted by the Bureau of Applied Social Research in which 800 female residents of Decatur, Illinois, where interviewed through panel interviews to discover what and who primarily influenced their decision making. Lazarsfeld worked with Robert Merton and thus hired C. Wright Mills to head the study. Another part of the research team, Thelma Ehrlich Anderson, trained local Decatur women to administer surveys to targeted women in town. By 1955. the Decatur study was published as part of Elihu Katz and Lazarsfeld's book \"Personal Influence\". The book concluded that ultimately, face to face interaction is more influential than traditional media influence and thus confirmed the two-step flow model of communication.\n\nThe original two-step flow hypothesis—that ideas flow from the media to opinion leaders and then to less active sections of the population—has been criticized and negated by myriad consequent studies. Findings from Deutschmann and Danielson assert, \"we would urge that the Katz-Lazarsfeld two-stage flow hypothesis, as a description of the initial information process, be applied to mass communication with caution\". They find substantial evidence that initial mass media information flows directly to people on the whole and is not relayed by opinion leaders.\n\nFurthermore, the two-step hypothesis does not adequately describe the flow of learning. Everett Rogers' \"Diffusion of Innovations\" cites one study in which two-thirds of respondents accredited their awareness to the mass media rather than face-to-face communication. Similarly, critics argue that most of Lazarsfeld's findings pertain to learning factors involved with general media habits rather than the learning of particular information. Both findings suggest a greater prevalence of a one-step flow of communication.\n\nHowever, Lazarsfeld's two-step hypothesis is an adequate description to understand the media's influence on belief and behavior. Troldahl finds that media exposure is a first step to introduce discussion, at which point opinion leaders initiate the second-step flow. These findings also realize opinion leaders' decisive role in the balance theory, which suggests that people are motivated to keep consistency among their current beliefs and opinions. If a person is exposed to new observations that are inconsistent with present beliefs, he or she is thrown into imbalance. This person will then seek advice from their opinion leader, to provide them with additional cognitions to bring them back into balance. In addition, this theory may be valid during the era when opinion leaders were the only ones to have easy access to media contents. Today, there is a free flow of information so that anybody could have access to media contents without relying substantially on opinion leaders.\n\nEmpirical research that analyzes vast databases from communication flows in social media finds that today's digital media landscape simultaneously facilitate one-step, two-step and more complex multi-step flow models of communication. For example, in Twitter networks it is no contradiction that average Twitter users mainly mention intermediating opinion leaders in their tweets (two-step flow), while at the same time traditional mass media outlets receive 80-90 % of their mentions directly through a direct one-step flow from the same users. This shows that the two-step model does not seem to be dead, nor obsolete, but simply one of several ways communication flows in modern networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1108875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108875", "title": "Yuva Janata Dal", "text": "Yuva Janata Dal\n\nYuva Janata Dal (Young People's Party) was the youth wing of the erstwhile Janata Dal. YJD was a member of World Federation of Democratic Youth. The youth wings of the JD splinter groups have similar names such as Yuva Janata Dal (Secular), Yuva Janata Dal (United), Yuva Rashtriya Janata Dal, etc. \n"}
