{"id": "51394731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51394731", "title": "Amafufunyana", "text": "Amafufunyana\n\nAmafufunyana is an unspecified \"culture-bound\" syndrome named by the traditional healers of the Xhosa people that relates to claims of demonic possession due to members of the Xhosa people exhibiting aberrant behavior and psychological concerns. After study, it was discovered that this term is directed toward people suffering from varying types of schizophrenia. A similar term, ukuthwasa, is used to refer to positive types of claimed possession, though this event also involves those suffering from schizophrenia. It has also found cultural usage among some groups of Zulu peoples.\n\nThe direct translation of the term \"amafufunyana\" is nerves and is a part of a much more complex cultural ideology connecting varying types of psychosis with religious, social, and recently psychiatric beliefs and activities. In a 1998 interview with Xhosa people suffering from schizophrenia by Lund et al., it was determined that through interaction with scientists and psychological services, the preferred treatment for the cultural condition had shifted from relation to traditional healers to active psychiatric assessment.\n\nPeople who claim to be suffering from \"amafufunyana\" state that their symptoms include hearing \"voices from their stomachs\", speaking in another language or in a disturbing tone, and general agitation and possible violence. There is also the possibility of suicide being attempted.\n\nOne of the cultural beliefs for the cause is bewitchment from drinking a magic potion brewed from ants that have been feeding upon a buried dead body. General possession by malignant spirits is also believed. Among the Zulu specifically, there is also the belief that a \"horde of spirits\" from multiple ethnic groups come together to take over a person's body.\n\nThe common cultural treatment for the claimed ailment is for one of the traditional healers, often \"ukuthwasa\" themselves, to perform a ritual of exorcism.\nRecorded incidents of \"amafufunyana\" appear to have begun in the early 20th century and researchers such as Ngubane \"et al\" have suggested that its cultural formation may have had something to do with colonialism and migration of indigenous peoples away from their homes. There have also been widespread outbreaks of the condition, similar to events involving contagious spread of hysteria, recorded in the 1980s at a rural girl's boarding school.\n\nThe most common types of people that are identified as afflicted by the cultural group are those of the lowest economic and social level and more often during times of cultural hardship and change, such as during migrations. More women than men are also identified.\n"}
{"id": "56784475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56784475", "title": "Ancient History Encyclopedia", "text": "Ancient History Encyclopedia\n\nAncient History Encyclopedia is a non-profit educational company created in 2009 by Jan van der Crabben with the goal of improving history education worldwide by creating a freely accessible and reliable history source. The organization publishes and maintains articles, images, videos, podcasts and interactive educational tools covering global ancient history for free. Even though anyone can contribute, the publication follows an editorial model where submissions are reviewed before publication. Each article is written in an easy-to-read manner with students and the general public in mind. \n\nThe website has been recommended for use in education by the School Library Journal, the Internet Scout Research Group at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, MERLOT and the European Commission's Open Education Europa initiative. It has been as cited as a historical reference in various publications and news media worldwide including The New York Times, BBC, Time (magazine), Smithsonian Magazine, and The Washington Post. In 2016, it won the .eu Web Award for education from the organization EURid.\n\nSince its founding, Ancient History Encyclopedia has become the global leader in ancient history content online. It is currently involved in active partnerships which pursue common goals in advancing cultural heritage and the digital humanities with organizations in Europe, North America, and South America.\n\nEven though the organization is based in Horsham, England, the company has no office and works purely as a globally distributed team.\n\nAncient History Encyclopedia website\n"}
{"id": "3861253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3861253", "title": "Boomerang Generation", "text": "Boomerang Generation\n\nBoomerang Generation is a term applied in Western culture to young adults graduating high school and college in the 21st century. They are so named for the percentage of whom choose to share a home with their parents after previously living on their own—thus boomeranging back to their parents' residence. This arrangement can take many forms, ranging from situations that mirror the high dependency of pre-adulthood to highly independent, separate-household arrangements.\n\nThe term can be used to indicate only those members of this age-set that actually do return home, not the whole generation. In as much as home-leaving practices differ by economic class, the term is most meaningfully applied to members of the middle class.\n\nThe parental expectation of having an \"empty nest\", traditional in the United States and some other industrialized cultures, has increasingly given way in the 1990s and 2000s to the reality of a \"cluttered nest\" or \"crowded nest\". The latter term was popularized by Kathleen Shaputis's 2004 book \"The Crowded Nest Syndrome: Surviving the Return of Adult Children\", which takes a critical view of the trend.\n\nUniversity of Western Ontario professor Roderic Beaujot discusses the phenomenon of delayed home-leaving at length. He cites Canadian census statistics showing that, in 1981, 27.5% of Canadians aged 20–29 lived with their parents; in 2001, the figure had grown to 41%. In the United States the proportion of adults ages 20 to 34 living with their parents has increased from 9% in 1960 to almost 17% in 2000. However, US census data also suggest that the rate at which adult children have been living with parents has been steady since 1981. The U.S. Census Bureau reported a 5 percent point increase in the number of young men (ages 24–34) living with their parents for the period between 2005 (14%) and 2011 (19%). For the same period, the number of young women living with their parents increased from 8% in 2005 to 10% in 2011.\n\nThe coming of age of this generation coincide with the economic downturn starting with the collapse of the stock market bubble in 2000. This led to rising unemployment until 2004, the same time this generation was entering the workforce after high school or college graduation. Additionally, in the new economy, where globalisation-induced phenomena like outsourcing have eliminated many jobs, real wages have fallen over the last twenty years, and a college degree no longer ensures job stability. Additionally, with the recent economic crisis hitting much of the world, many young people were either laid off or could no longer afford to live on their own. Moving back home allows them the option of unpaid internships and additional schooling without the burden of paying rent at market rates (or paying rent at all).\n\nAn increase in divorce rates as well as a delay in initial marriage are other contributing factors in young adults returning to reside with their parents.\n\nThis generation differs from previous ones in that many members expect to remain with their parents for some years while maintaining their own social and professional lives. Home-leaving remains a priority for most in the Boomerang Generation, though financial burden (and the comforts of financial stability in their parents' homes) often delays the fruition of that goal.\n\nThe phenomenon of boomeranging/delayed home-leaving has generated considerable inquiry and debate, including academic studies at reputable universities; full-length books, such as \"The Hands-On Guide to Surviving Adult Children Living at Home\" by Christina Newberry; articles in national newspapers; documentaries, such as \"Generation Boomerang\"; and major motion pictures, such as \"Failure to Launch\" (2006) starring Matthew McConaughey.\n\nEconomic instability is the primary justification for this phenomenon, as articulated in Kimberly Palmer's 2007 \"U.S. News & World Report\" article \"The New Parent Trap: More Boomers Help Adult Kids out Financially\". In particular, the term Boomeranger has been used to draw reference to those Gen-Xers and Gen-Yers of the Boomerang Generation who have either returned to an earlier, more modest lifestyle or have simply moved back home with parents and other loved ones, in response to the Great Recession. Where the young person and his/her parents can tolerate the arrangement, it provides tremendous financial relief to the young person. Such co-residence can be a valuable form of insurance, particularly for youths from poorer families. It may also provide non-negligible income to the parents, though in many cultures, the boomeranger retains all or nearly all of their disposable income for discretionary income purchases.\n\nThough inter-generational cohabitation is \"terra incognita\" for many in modern industrialized Western societies and therefore challenging, those who attempt it can benefit from the experience. The arrangement tends to force all involved to communicate and negotiate in ways they did not when the children were pre-adults. In the best case, this can lead to healthy adult relationships between parents and children.\n\nThis can benefit parents when they reach old age. In societies where it is common for children to live with their parents into adulthood, such as Asian and Hispanic cultures, children more frequently take care of aging parents rather than devolving the responsibility on a third party, such as a nursing home. Whether the Boomerang Generation will follow suit remains to be seen, as the older Baby Boom generation ages. And let's not forget that the recession has affected the Baby Boomers as well, perhaps even more so than their children, as many lost significant investments and savings intended for retirement. In this case, we can only hope the cohabitation of parents and their adult children can be mutually beneficial in terms of easing the financial burden. While the boomerangers may live rent free, it is common for them to take on other financial responsibilities in return, such as groceries or utilities.\n\nIn 2014, 20% of adults in their 20s and early 30s were residing with their parents, which is twice the amount of the previous generation. Though there are many reasons cited for the need for parental support, one of the greatest contributing factors is said to be student loan debt. 45% of 25-year-old college graduates currently owe $20,000 or more. For some families, the financial instability of the mid 2000s caused a decrease in funds allocated for higher education, therefore decreasing parental financial contributions and causing the need for more loans to cover educational costs. And while student loans are more frequently taken out in the student’s name, some parents who took out loans are facing substantial debt and are now relying on their adult children to provide financial assistance while they pay them off.\n\nCritics of the practice of boomeranging, such as Shaputis, worry about the negative effect this trend has on the financial and social independence of the children.\n\nThose who return home from the unrestrictive nature of college dorm life may have difficulty readjusting to their parents' domestic expectations. Where living space is shared, gatherings with friends can be limited in frequency or scope. Dating is similarly constrained and can be impaired by the stigma of the young adult's perceived inability to function independently of his parents.\n"}
{"id": "3095897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3095897", "title": "Celebratory gunfire", "text": "Celebratory gunfire\n\nCelebratory gunfire (also called aerial firing or happy fire) is the shooting of a firearm into the air in celebration. It is culturally accepted in parts of the Balkans, the Middle East, the Central Asian region of Afghanistan, and the South Asian region of Pakistan. In regions such as Puerto Rico and continental areas of the United States it is practiced illegally, especially on holidays like New Year's Eve.\n\nCommon occasions for celebratory gunfire include New Year's Day as well as religious holidays such as Eid. The practice may result in random death and injury from stray bullets. Property damage is sometimes another result of celebratory gunfire; shattered windows and damaged roofs are often found after such celebrations.\n\nBullets fired into the air usually fall back with terminal velocities much lower than their muzzle velocity when they leave the barrel of a firearm. Nevertheless, people can be injured, sometimes fatally, when bullets discharged into the air fall back down to the ground. Bullets fired at angles less than vertical are more dangerous as the bullet maintains its angular ballistic trajectory and is far less likely to engage in tumbling motion; it therefore travels at speeds much higher than a bullet in free fall.\n\nA study by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that 80% of celebratory gunfire-related injuries are to the head, feet, and shoulders. In Puerto Rico, about two people die and about 25 more are injured each year from celebratory gunfire on New Year's Eve, the CDC says. Between the years 1985 and 1992, doctors at the King/Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, treated some 118 people for random falling-bullet injuries. Thirty-eight of them died.\n\nFirearms expert Julian Hatcher studied falling bullets in the 1920s and calculated that .30 caliber rounds reach terminal velocities of 90 m/s (300 feet per second or 186 miles per hour).\nA bullet traveling at only 61 m/s (200 feet per second) to 100 m/s (330 feet per second) can penetrate human skin.\n\nIn 2005, the International Action Network on Small Arms (IANSA) ran education campaigns on the dangers of celebratory gunfire in Serbia and Montenegro.\nIn Serbia, the campaign slogan was \"every bullet that is fired up, must come down.\"\n\nBullets often lodge in roofs, causing minor damage that requires repair in most cases. Normally, the bullet will penetrate the roof surface through to the roof deck, leaving a hole where water may run into the building and cause a leak.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe non-fiction U.S. cable television program \"MythBusters\" on the Discovery Channel covered this topic in Episode 50: \"Bullets Fired Up\" (original airdate: April 19, 2006). Special-effects experts Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman conducted a series of experiments to answer the question: \"Can celebratory gunfire kill when the bullets fall back to earth?\"\n\nUsing pig carcasses, they worked out the terminal velocity of a falling bullet and had a mixed result, answering the question with all three of the show's possible outcomes: Confirmed, Plausible and Busted. They tested falling bullets by firing them from both a handgun and a rifle, by firing them from an air gun designed to propel them at terminal velocity, and by dropping them in the desert from an instrumented balloon.\n\nThey found that while bullets traveling on a perfectly vertical trajectory tumble on the way down, creating turbulence that reduces terminal velocity below that which would kill, it was very difficult to fire a bullet in a near-ideal vertical trajectory. In practice, bullets were likely to remain spin-stabilized on a ballistic trajectory and fall at a potentially lethal terminal velocity. They also verified cases of actual deaths from falling bullets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1756707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1756707", "title": "Chinese patriarchy", "text": "Chinese patriarchy\n\nChinese patriarchy refers to the history and prevalence of male dominance in Chinese society and culture, although patriarchy is not exclusive to Chinese culture and exists all over the world.\n\nMencius outlined the three subordinations. A woman was to be subordinate to her father in youth, her husband in maturity, and her son in old age. Familial relationships are prefixed, and family lifestyles and behaviors are constrained by social norms. \n\nAnother one of these famous quotes is also related to the patriarchy found in Athens. \"Men are free to roam outside, but the woman must stay inside.\"\n\nA cliché of classical texts, which is repeated throughout the tradition, is the familiar notion that men govern the outer world, while women govern the home.\nIn the Han dynasty, the female historian Ban Zhao wrote the \"Lessons for Women\", advice on how women should behave. She outlines the four virtues women must abide by: proper virtue, proper speech, proper countenance, proper merit. The \"three subordinations and the four virtues\" is a common four-character phrase throughout the imperial period.\n\nAs for the historical development of Chinese patriarchy, women's status was highest in the Tang dynasty, when women played sports (polo) and were generally freer in fashion and conduct. Between the Tang and Song dynasties, a fad for little feet arose, and from the Song dynasty onwards foot binding became more and more common for the elite. In the Ming dynasty, a tradition of virtuous widowhood developed. Widows, even if widowed at a young age, would be expected not to remarry. Their virtuous names might be displayed on the arch at the entrance of the village.\n\nConfucian conceptions of \"respect for the elders\" has been focused on preserving the traditional role of the father as the primary leader and decision maker of the family. In the hierarchy of traditional Chinese cultural family life, the father and sons take prominence over the mother and daughters.\n\nFeatures of patriarchy in 20th and 21st century China are a combination of contemporary problems found even in the West and traditional Chinese issues.\n\nMen hold most of the major positions of power within the country, especially in the political and military spheres. However, with the decline of traditional practices through the 20th century, women have come to enjoy virtually equal economic power. This is especially true in the cities, where the social stigma of being a working woman is virtually nonexistent, although skepticism of unmarried, career-minded women is increasing. Although both genders face strong pressure to be married, women who remain unmarried past the age of 25 are shamed by state media with the label leftover women.\n\nIn addition, foot binding and arranged marriages have been virtually eradicated.\n\nThere is also the issue of forced abortions in China, especially for sex selection purposes; authorities have been accused of giving the women virtually no control over their bodies in this area.\n\nMencius outlined the three subordinations. A woman was to be subordinate to her father in youth, her husband in maturity, and her son in old age.[1] Familial relationships are prefixed, and family lifestyles and behaviors are constrained by social norms. [2]\n\nAnother one of these famous quotes is also related to the patriarchy found in Athens. \"Men are free to roam outside, but the woman must stay inside.\"\n\nA cliché of classical texts, which is repeated throughout the tradition, is the familiar notion that men govern the outer world, while women govern the home. In the Han dynasty, the female historian Ban Zhao wrote the Lessons for Women, advice on how women should behave. She outlines the four virtues women must abide by: proper virtue, proper speech, proper countenance, proper merit. The \"three subordinations and the four virtues\" is a common four-character phrase throughout the imperial period.\n\nAs for the historical development of Chinese patriarchy, women's status was highest in the Tang dynasty, when women played sports (polo) and were generally freer in fashion and conduct. Between the Tang and Song dynasties, a fad for little feet arose, and from the Song dynasty onwards foot binding became more and more common for the elite. In the Ming dynasty, a tradition of virtuous widowhood developed. Widows, even if widowed at a young age, would be expected not to remarry. Their virtuous names might be displayed on the arch at the entrance of the village.\n\nConfucian conceptions of \"respect for the elders\" has been focused on preserving the traditional role of the father as the primary leader and decision maker of the family. In the hierarchy of traditional Chinese cultural family life, the father and sons take prominence over the mother and daughters.\n\nSelection of children by gender:\n"}
{"id": "9454590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9454590", "title": "Crab mentality", "text": "Crab mentality\n\nCrab mentality or crabs in a bucket (also barrel, basket or pot) is a way of thinking best described by the phrase \"if I can't have it, neither can you\". The metaphor refers to a pattern of behaviour noted in crabs when they are trapped in a bucket. While any one crab could easily escape, its efforts will be undermined by others, ensuring the group's collective demise.\n\nThe analogy in human behaviour is claimed to be that members of a group will attempt to reduce the self-confidence of any member who achieves success beyond the others, out of envy, resentment, spite, conspiracy, or competitive feelings, to halt their progress.\n\nThe impact of crab mentality on performance was quantified by a New Zealand study in 2015 which demonstrated up to an 18 per cent average exam result improvement for students when their grades were reported in a way that prevented others from knowing their position in published rankings.\n"}
{"id": "54004404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54004404", "title": "Criminal tradition", "text": "Criminal tradition\n\nCriminal tradition - of the cultural transmission of criminal values. Criminal traditions are transmitted from the older generation to the younger generation, such as social customs are in other forms of society.\n\nStudies of the criminal tradition involved Clifford R. Shaw and Henry D. McKay. They put forward a theory of “cultural transmission”, focuses on the development in some urban neighborhoods of a criminal tradition that persists from one generation to another despite constant changes in population. This theory stresses the value systems of different areas\n\nAlso worth noting theory of “differential association,” in which Edwin H. Sutherland described the processes by which criminal values are taken over by the individual. Edwin H. Sutherland asserted that criminal behavior is learned and that it is learned in interaction with others who have already incorporated criminal values.\n\nResearch by Shaw and McKay on the concept of cultural transmission indicates that a criminal tradition or subculture does exist in areas of larger cities. According to their studies Criminal tradition arises and is maintained in areas of instability, and the values, norms, and behaviors of the participants in the criminal tradition are viewed as normal by these people.\n\nTraditions are not personified, so adolescents and boys are easier to obey than direct instructions from specific individuals. This is the power of tradition. The norms of the life of groups in which the will of their members manifest themselves take the form of tradition most often. In the tradition that there is no personification, adolescents find it easier to obey them than to a particular person. Against this background, the criminal traditions that are prevalent in youth criminal groups, especially in closed educational and correctional institutions are especially dangerous. In a criminal environment, there are two kinds of traditions:\n\n\nAt the same time, there is a transformation of existing criminal traditions and the emergence of new ones. The reason for this is the changes in the social, economic, legal and other spheres.\n\nOn the criminal tradition in different countries of the world, there is a huge amount of work. There is an impressive number of works on the Russian criminal tradition, written in different languages. \nWe can also highlight works by Jonny Steinberg on the numbers gangs of South Africa\n\nThere is also the view that it is impossible to consider all the traditions of the criminal environment as antisocial and harmful, including, for the reason that some of the traditions in the cells of the remand center, contribute to hygiene and the maintenance of sanitary norms.\n\nIn Russian criminal tradition adherents of the criminal (criminal) tradition are characterized by active participation in the life of the \"thieves' community\"; Living on tangible assets obtained by criminal means; Propaganda of \"thieves' customs and traditions, as well as criminal way of life; Compulsion to keep a word not only before the \"brother\", but also the criminal-criminal world; Organization of collection of \"obschekovyh\" funds and control over their use; Guardianship and assistance to detainees and convicts, the so-called \"vagabonds\" and \"honest prisoners\"; Compliance with the decisions of \"gatherings\"; Demanding of \"brotherhood\" and control over their compliance; Organization of counteraction to state bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "46736086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46736086", "title": "Cultural and Social History", "text": "Cultural and Social History\n\nCultural and Social History is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering cultural and social history published by Bloomsbury Journals 5 times a year on behalf of the Social History Society. It was established in 2004.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in America: History of Life, Australian Research Council 2010 rankings – Grade A, British Humanities Index, Historical Abstracts, IBR International Bibliography of Book Reviews of Scholarly Literature in the Humanities and Social Sciences, IBZ International Bibliography of Periodical Literature on the Humanities and Social Sciences, ISI Arts and Humanities Citation Index, Linguistics and Language Behavior Abstracts, PAIS Public Affairs, Information Service International, Scopus, Social Science Abstracts.\n"}
{"id": "9020225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9020225", "title": "Cultural policy", "text": "Cultural policy\n\nCultural policy is the government actions, laws and programs that regulate, protect, encourage and financially (or otherwise) support activities related to the arts and creative sectors, such as painting, sculpture, music, dance, literature, and filmmaking, among others and culture, which may involve activities related to language, heritage and diversity. The idea of cultural policy was developed at UNESCO in the 1960s. Generally, this involves governments setting in place processes, legal classifications, regulations, legislation and institutions (e.g., galleries, museums, libraries, opera houses, etc.) which promote and facilitate cultural diversity and creative expressions in a range of art forms and creative activities. Cultural policies vary from one country to another, but generally they aim to improve the accessibility of arts and creative activities to citizens and promote the artistic, musical, ethnic, sociolinguistic, literary and other expressions of all people in a country. In some countries, especially since the 1970s, there is an emphasis on supporting the culture of Indigenous peoples and marginalized communities and ensuring that cultural industries (e.g., filmmaking or TV production) are representative of a country's diverse cultural heritage and ethnic and linguistic demographics. \n\nCultural policy can be done at a nation-state level, at a sub-national level (e.g., U.S. states or Canadian provinces), at a regional level or at a municipal level (e.g., a city government creating a museum or arts centre). Examples of cultural policy-making at the nation-state level could include anything from funding music education or theatre programs at little to no cost, to hosting corporate-sponsored art exhibitions in a government museum, to establishing legal codes (such as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service’s 501(c)(3) tax designation for not-for-profit enterprises) and creating political institutions (such as the various ministries of culture and departments of culture and the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Endowment for the Arts in the United States), arts granting councils, and cultural institutions such as galleries and museums. Similar significant organisations in the United Kingdom include the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), and Arts Council England.\n\nThroughout much of the twentieth century, many of the activities that compose cultural policy in the 2010s were governed under the title of \"arts policy\". Arts policy includes direct funding to artists, creators and art institutions and indirect funding to artists and arts institutions through the tax system (e.g., by making donations to arts charities tax deductible). However, as Kevin Mulcahy has observed, \"cultural policy encompasses a much broader array of activities than were addressed under arts policy. Whereas arts policy was effectively limited to addressing aesthetic concerns (e.g., funding art galleries and opera houses), the significance of the transformation to cultural policy can be observed in its demonstrable emphases on cultural identity, valorization of indigineity [Indigenous people's culture] and analyses of historical dynamics (such as hegemony and colonialism).\" A general trend in Western industrialized nations is a shift, since the 1970s and 1980s, away from solely supporting a small number of relatively elite, professionalized art forms and institutions (e.g., Classical music, painting, sculpture, art galleries) to also supporting amateur and community cultural and creative activities (e.g., community theatre) and cultural forms which were not considered part of the Western canon by previous generations (e.g., traditional music such as blues, World music, and so on).\n\nPrior to the twentieth century, the arts were typically supported by the patronage of the church, aristocrats such as kings and queens, and wealthy merchants. During the nineteenth century, artists increased their use of the private marketplace to earn revenue. For example, the composer Beethoven put on public concerts for which admission was charged. During the twentieth century, governments began to take over some of the arts patronage roles. Governments' first efforts to support culture were typically the establishment of archives, museums and libraries. Over the twentieth century, governments established a range of other institutions, such as arts councils and departments of culture. The first departments of culture typically supported the major arts that are part of the Western canon, such as painting and sculpture, and the major performing arts (Classical music and theatre).\n\nIn the twentieth century, Western governments in the U.K., Canada, Australia, New Zealand and many European nations developed arts policy measures to promote, support and protect the arts, artists and arts institutions. These governments' arts policy initiatives generally had two aims: supporting excellence in the arts and broadening access to the arts by citizens. An example of an arts policy initiative that supports excellence would be a government grant program which provides funding to the highest-achieving artists in the country. A concrete example would be a literary prize of $100,000 for the best fiction authors from the country, as selected by a panel of top experts. An example of an arts policy initiative that aims at increasing access to the arts would be a music in the schools program funded by the government. A concrete example would be a program which funded an orchestra or jazz quartet and paid them to play free concerts in elementary schools. This would enable children from lower- and middle-income families to hear live music. \n\nThe two goals, supporting excellence and broadening access, are often trade-offs, as any increase in emphasis on one policy objective typically has an adverse effect on the other goal. To give an example, if a hypothetical country has a $12 million per year grant program for orchestras in the country, if the government focuses on the goal of supporting musical excellence, it may decide to provide $4 million per year to the three top orchestras in the country, as determined by a panel of independent professional music critics, conductors and music professors. This decision would strongly support the goal of enhancing excellence, as funding would only go to the top musical groups. However, this approach would only enable citizens in three cities to have access to professional orchestras.\n\nOn the other hand, if the government was focusing on broadening access to symphony concerts, it might direct the independent panel to pick 12 orchestras in the country, with the stipulation that only one orchestra per city be selected. By proving $1 million per year to 12 orchestras in 12 cities, this would enable citizens from 12 cities in the country to see live orchestra shows. However, by funding 12 orchestras, this would mean that funding would go to ensembles that do not meet the highest standards of excellence. Thus, excellence and broadening access are often trade-offs.\n\nCultural policy, while a small part of the budgets of even the most generous of governments, governs a sector of immense complexity. It entails “a large, heterogeneous set of individuals and organizations engaged in the creation, production, presentation, distribution, and preservation of and education about aesthetic heritage, and entertainment activities, products and artifacts”. A cultural policy necessarily encompasses a broad array of activities and typically involves public support for:\n\nSome governments may place policy areas from this list in other ministries or departments. For example, national parks may be assigned to an environment department, or public humanities may be delegated to an education department. \n\nSince culture is a public good (i.e., contributes a public value to society for which it is hard to exclude non-payers, as all of society benefits from arts and culture) and something that is generally viewed as a merit good, governments have pursued programs to promote greater accessibility. In this way of thinking, significant aesthetic works such as paintings and sculptures should be made broadly available to the public. In other words, “high culture” should not be the exclusive preserve of a particular social class or of a metropolitan location. Rather, the benefits of the highest reaches of cultural excellence should be made in an egalitarian manner; national cultural treasures should be accessible without regard to the impediments of class circumstances, educational attainment or place of habitation. A democratic state cannot be seen as simply indulging the aesthetic preferences of a few, however enlightened, or of overtly infusing art with political values. Consequently, a democratic cultural policy must articulate its purposes in ways that demonstrate how the public interest is being served. These purposes have often been expressed as involving either the creation of cultural democracy or the democratization of culture.\n\nThe objective of cultural democratization is the aesthetic enlightenment, enhanced dignity, and educational development of the general citizenry. “Dissemination was the key concept with the aim of establishing equal opportunity for all citizens to participate in publicly organized and financed cultural activities”. To further this goal, performances and exhibitions are low cost; public art education promotes equality of aesthetic opportunity; national institutions tour and perform in work places, retirement homes and housing complexes.\n\nAs indicated earlier, the “democratization of culture” is a top-down approach that promulgates certain forms of cultural programming that are deemed to be a public good. Clearly, such an objective is open to criticism for what is termed cultural elitism; that is, the assumption that some aesthetic expressions are inherently superior - at least as determined by a cognoscenti concerned with the acquisition of cultural capital. “The problem with this policy [is] that, fundamentally, it intend[s] to create larger audiences for performances whose content [is] based on the experience of society’s privileged groups. In sum, it has… taken for granted that the cultural needs of all society’s members [are] alike”. The objective of cultural democracy, on the other hand, is to provide for a more participatory (or populist) approach in the definition and provision of cultural opportunities.\n\nThe coupling of the concept of democratization of culture to cultural democracy has a pragmatic as well as a philosophical component. Cultural patronage in democratic governments is markedly different from patronage by wealthy individuals or corporations. Private or politically paramount patrons are responsible only to themselves and are free to indulge in their tastes and preferences. Democratic governments, on the other hand, are responsible to the electorate and are held accountable for their policy decisions.\n\nThe two objectives just discussed - dissemination of high culture and participation in a broader range of cultural activities - evoke a related debate about the content of public culture: “elitist” or “populist.” \nProponents of the elitist position argue that cultural policy should emphasize aesthetic quality as the determining criterion for public subvention. This view is typically supported by the major cultural organizations, creative artists in the traditionally defined field of the fine arts, cultural critics, and the well-educated, well-to-do audiences for these art forms. Ronald Dworkin terms this the “lofty approach,” which “insists that art and culture must reach a certain degree of sophistication, richness, and excellence in order for human nature to flourish, and that the state must provide this excellence if the people will not or cannot provide it for themselves”. Advocates of the elitist position generally focus on supporting the creation, preservation and performance of works of the Western canon, a group of artworks that are viewed as the best artistic and cultural products of Western society.\n\nBy contrast, the populist position advocates defining culture broadly and inclusively and making this culture broadly available. The populist approach emphasizes a less traditional and more pluralist notion of artistic merit and consciously seeks to create a policy of cultural diversity. With a focus on personal enhancement, the populist’s position posits very limited boundaries between amateur and professional arts activities. Indeed, the goal is to provide opportunities for those outside the professional mainstream. To give an example, whereas an elite approach advocates support for professional musicians, particularly those from Classical music, a populist approach would advocate support for amateur, community singers and musicians.\n\n“Proponents of populism are frequently advocates of minority arts, folk arts, ethnic arts, or counter-cultural activities” as Kevin V. Mulcahy said. Cultural “elitists,” on the other hand, argue in support of excellence over amateurism and favor an emphasis on aesthetic discipline over “culture as everything.” There are “two key tensions for national cultural policy between the goals of excellence versus access, and between government roles as facilitator versus architect”.\nKevin V. Mulcahy argued that in effect, elitism is cultural democracy as populism is to the democratization of culture. Unfortunately, there has been a tendency to see these positions as mutually exclusive, rather than complementary. “Elitists” are denounced as “high brow snobs” advocating an esoteric culture which focuses on art music and the types of art seen in museums and galleries; populists are dismissed as “pandering philistines” promoting a trivialized and commercialized culture, as they endorse the value of popular music and folk art. However, these mutual stereotypes belie complementariness between two bookends of an artistically autonomous and politically accountable cultural policy. There is a synthesis that can be termed a “latitudinarian approach” to public culture; that is, one that is aesthetically inclusive and broadly accessible.\n\nSuch a public-cultural policy would remain faithful to the highest standards of excellence from a broad range of aesthetic expressions while providing the widest possible access to people from different geographic locales, socio-economic strata, and educational background, as Dr. Mulcahy said. In conceiving of public policy as an opportunity to provide alternatives not readily available in the marketplace, public cultural agencies would be better positioned to complement the efforts of the private sector rather than duplicate their activities. Similarly, cultural agencies can promote community development by supporting artistic heritages that are at a competitive disadvantage in a cultural world that is increasingly profit-driven. In sum, excellence should be viewed as the achievements of greatness from a horizontal, rather than a vertical, perspective and a cultural policy as supporting the totality of these varieties of excellence.\n\nThese attitudes about a public cultural responsibility stand in marked contrast to much of the rest of the world, where culture is a question of historic patrimony, or the national identities of peoples, whether in independent states or regions within more powerful states. Inevitably, sensitive issues are involved in any discussion of culture as a public policy. However, given the demands in a democratic system that public policies show a return to the taxpayer, cultural policy has frequently argued for support on the basis of utility. It can be argued that there is a parity between the state’s responsibility for its citi’ social-economic-physical needs and their access to culture and opportunities for artistic self-expression. However, the aesthetic dimension of public policy has never been widely perceived as intuitively obvious or politically imperative. Accordingly, the cultural sector has often argued its case from the secondary, ancillary benefits that result from public support for programs that are seemingly only aesthetic in nature. Cultural policy is not typically justified solely on the grounds that it is a good-in-itself, but rather that it yields other good results.\n\nThe future of cultural policy would seem to predict an increasingly inexorable demand that the arts “carry their own weight” rather than rely on a public subsidy to pursue “art for art’s sake”. Kevin V. Mulcahy dubbed this “cultural Darwinism” is most pronounced in the United States where public subsidy is limited and publicly supported aesthetic activities are expected to demonstrate a direct public benefit. Non-American cultural institutions are less constrained by the need to maintain diversified revenue streams that demand high levels of earned income and individual and corporate donations to compensate for limited government appropriations.\n\nOn the other hand, cultural institutions everywhere are increasingly market-driven in their need for supplementary funds and as a justification for continued public support. The American model of an essentially privatized culture is increasingly attractive to governments seeking to curtail their cultural subsidies. In a system of mixed funding, public culture can nurture the arts groups and cultural activities that contribute to individual self-worth and community definition even if counting for less in the economic bottom-line. At root, a cultural policy is about creating public spheres that are not dependent upon profit motives nor validated by commercial values. As political democracy is dependent upon the existence of civil society and socio-economic pluralism, cultural policy stands as an essential public commitment in realizing these fundamental preconditions.\n\nOne of the available and yet underappreciated tools in cultural policy at the national level is the reduction of VAT rates for cultural goods and services. Economic theory can be used to explain how reduced fiscal rates are expected to decrease prices and increase quantities of consumed cultural goods and services. Fiscal policy can be an important part of cultural policy, in particular the VAT rate discounts on cultural consumption, yet it receives less attention than deserved.\n\nAt the international level UNESCO is in charge of cultural policy. Contact information for ministries of culture and national arts councils in 160 countries is available from the website of the International Federation of Arts Councils and Culture Agencies (IFACCA). On a local scale, subnational (e.g., state or provincial governments), city and local governments offer citizens and local authorities the opportunity to develop arts and culture with the Agenda 21 for Culture.\n\nCultural policy research is a field of academic inquiry that grew out of cultural studies in the 1990s. It grew out of the idea that cultural studies should not only be critical, but also try to be useful. In the 2010s, there are many departments of Cultural Policy Studies around the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52848782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52848782", "title": "Cultural sustainability", "text": "Cultural sustainability\n\nCultural sustainability as it relates to sustainable development (to sustainability), has to do with the maintaining of cultural beliefs, cultural practices, heritage conservation, culture as its own entity, and attempts to answer the question of whether or not any given cultures will exist in the context of the future. Culture is defined as a set of beliefs, morals, methods, and a collection of human knowledge that is dependent on the transmission of these characteristics to younger generations. Sustainability is defined as the ability to sustain or continue. The two concepts have been intertwined within social and political domains, and as such, have become one of the more important concepts of sustainability.\n\nFirst mentioned in 1995, cultural sustainability also presents viable options within the realm of social policy, providing solutions to sustainable development issues.\n\nCultural Sustainability can be regarded as a fundamental issue, even a precondition to be met on the path towards sustainable development. However, the theoretical and conceptual understanding of cultural sustainability within the general frames of Sustainable Development remains vague and consequently, the role of culture is poorly implemented in the environmental, as well as political and social policy. Determining the impact of Cultural Sustainability is found by investigating the concept of culture in the context of Sustainable development, through multidisciplinary approaches and analyses. This means examining the best practices for bringing culture into political and social policy as well as practical domains, and developing means and indicators for assessing the impacts of culture on Sustainable Development.\n\nCultural sustainability has always been categorized under the social pillar of the three pillars of sustainability, but with recent developments within this field considerations are being made in order to make Cultural Sustainability its own pillar, due to its growing importance within social, political, environmental, and economic spheres. The importance of cultural sustainability lies within its influential power over the people, as decisions that are made within the context of society are heavily weighed by the beliefs of that society.\n\nCulture has an overwhelming effect on social, economic and political planning, but as of yet, has failed to be incorporated into social and political policy on a grand scale, however, certain policies regarding both policy and politics have managed to be implemented into some conventions that are implemented on a global scale. Culture is found everywhere within a society, from the relics of previous generations, to the accumulated values of a society. Culture within society can be divided into two, equally important subtopics that aid in the description of cultural specific characterizations. These categories, as defined by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) are \"Material\" and \"Immaterial\". Material objects such as shrines, paintings, buildings, landscapes and other humanistic formations act as a physical representation of the culture in that area. Although they have little social and political utility, they serve as physical landmarks and culturally dependant objects whose meaning is created and maintained within the context of that society. The accumulation of these cultural characteristics are what measures a society's cultural integrity, and these characteristics are inherently capable of transforming landscapes of political, social, & environment nature via the influence that these values and historical remains have on the population. Little success has come with the implementations of cultural policy within the context of politics due to a lack of empirical information regarding the topic of cultural sustainability. The Immaterial category contains more socially and politically applicable characteristics such as practices, traditions, aesthetics, knowledge, expressions etc. These characteristics embody social and political utility through education of people, housing, social justice, Human Rights, employment and more. These values contribute to the wellbeing of a society through the use of collective thinking and ideals i.e. culture. Culture also presents more room for expansion on its effects on a society. Specifically, creativity, respect, empathy, and other practices are being used to create social integration and also to create a sense of \"self\" in the world.\n\nImplementation of policy on a global scale has had little success, but enough to show an increasing interest in the topic of Cultural Sustainability. The conventions that have been implemented, have done so on a large scale, involving multiple countries, across most continents. UNESCO has been responsible for the vast majority of these conventions, maintaining that cultural sustainability and cultural heritage are a strong cornerstone of society. One of the more relevant conventions created in 2003 is the \"Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage\" which proclaims that culture must be protected against all adversarial combatants. This safeguard was implemented as an understanding that culture guarantees sustainability. Implementing policy based on cultural history is in the process of becoming a widely talked about subject and holds that cultures will be able to thrive in the context of both present and future. Conventions made by UNESCO regarding cultural preservation and sustainability are surrounding the promotion of cultural diversity, which means multiple cultures and ideals within one grand culture.\n\nCultural memorabilia and artifacts from a cultures history maintain an important role in modern society as they are kept as relics and shrines in order to remember the stories, knowledge, skills and methods of ancestors and learn invaluable lessons from the past. Today, cultures use libraries, art exhibits and museums as a placeholder for these important objects and other culturally significant artifacts. Not only are these objects revered, but the buildings themselves are oftentimes a symbol of cultural integrity to the community which it belongs. Linking with the other pillars of sustainability, the biggest barrier to cultural sustainability is funding. Economic sustainability relies on a number of systems with goals to ensure economic prosperity by eliminating spending where it is not needed. Cultural buildings such as museums oftentimes fail to receive the funding it needs to continue the preservation of culturally significant artifacts.\n\nTourism is a travelling method for which people can venture to different areas of the globe and experience new ways of living, and explore landscapes not native to their country of origin. Tourism is constantly being criticized for its impact on the social, political and environmental landscapes due to its high volume of mass consumers. Within the realm of tourism exists more sustainable practices and ideals that are aligned with the idea of cultural sustainability.\n\nGeotourism is a form of tourism which relies heavily upon the sustainability, or even the improvement of a selected geological location. Serving as an alternative to Mass Tourism, Geotourism was created with the purpose of aiding in the sustainable development movement. Geotourism is a method which focuses on Sustainable culture, ecological preservation and restoration, welfare of local populous, and the wildlife in the immediate area. The link between Geotourism and Cultural sustainability lies within their role in maintaining the natural state of the environment, including the social and cultural environment. Preservation of the local culture has been a key element of Geotourism from its inception, and due to this form of tourism, travellers are able to experience true local culture, lifestyles, and practices experienced by the people native to that region. This form of tourism provides education regarding destinations they have travelled to via ethnographic methods, and also calls upon the traveller to become aware of the footprint they leave on the environment, as well as social changes that may be harmful to the indigenous peoples. Responsibility plays an important role in Geotourism by informing travellers of their duties to respect, and preserve the local culture. Many countries have adapted this method of tourism, going as far as to implement geotourism sites equipped with guides that discuss matters of importance in that area such as environmental or cultural concerns. Such countries include: \nGeotourism in Honduras includes The Bay Islands, a Caribbean archipelago made up of three main islands, Utila, Roatan, and Guanaja and a few lesser islands and cays located off the north coast of Honduras. These islands have been blessed with stunning natural scenery, highlighted by idyllic beaches, tropical hillsides, and mangrove forests. \nGeotourism in Mexico includes Puerto Penasco. This region includes the protected Sea of Cortez, the Pinacate Crator which offers barren desesrts, sacred tribal and Indian lands, fishing zones, estuaries, oyster beds, and vibrant farmland and wine country.\nGeotourism in Canada includes Nova Scotia. It was visited by explorers and geologists from around the world for centuries, Nova Scotia′s geological sites are now recognized for their beauty as much as for their rich history. Nova Scotia’s sites include the iconic lighthouses, which is built on rocky precipices that reach out into the sea. \nGeotourism in Portugal includes the Geopark of Arouca, which, in 2010, was officially recognised and joined the Global network of Geoparks, under the auspices of UNESCO. The park is known for it’s natural, gastronomical, and cultural heritage. This mountainous area, with rivers, natural parks, steep slopes and lush vegetation covers the entire municipality of Arouca. The granite used to build so many religious and historical monuments, Romanesque chapels and Baroque churches in the region came was extracted from its mountains – Freita and Montemuro.\n\nAs the practice of sustainability in all forms (environmental, social, and economy) becomes a more revered topic and gains traction within political spheres, sociologists suggest refining the practices of tourism to fit a mold that is more conducive to the sustainability models. Tazim et al. suggests the key to sustainable tourism lies within the responsible practice of travellers, but also within the direct participation of the locals in tourism practices. Although Geotourism shows to be a viable alternative for mass tourism, reducing the footprint of travellers on different parts of the world, there have been criticisms made regarding its fairness to the local population. Issues of fair pay, and the rights of the local people are the basis of the ethical dilemmas this kind of tourism faces. Tourism has a direct effect on the culture of the local populous, and as such, the focus of sociologists has been how to maintain the local environment (physically, socio-culturally, and economically) while at the same time, introduce people to a new culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "8318989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8318989", "title": "Culture of Saba", "text": "Culture of Saba\n\nSaba's culture bears the influence of its early settlers, among them the English, Scottish, Africans, and Dutch. Because Saba measures only five square miles and has a treacherous coastline (making invasion difficult), its population has always been small. Today its population numbers about 1500 people, with approximately 250 being expatriates. Many of the non-Sabans teach at or attend the Saba University School of Medicine. \n\nAlthough archaeologists have found evidence of early Amerindian presence, a group of shipwrecked Englishmen in 1632 found the island uninhabited. During the colonial period, Saba's ownership changed hands many times between the Spanish, English, Dutch, and French. Although part of the Netherlands Antilles since 1954, Saba's official language (along with that of Sint Maarten and Sint Eustatius) is both Dutch and English, given the fact that the majority of Sabans speak English as their first language. English has been added to Saba's school curriculum by the Dutch government as a result.\n\nMost Sabans are descended from a handful of families. Hassell, Simmons, and Johnson are common surnames. Early settlers relied on farming, fishing, sailing, and shipbuilding for their livings; pirates sought haven there, too. They passed down a hardy nature necessary to survive the island's conditions. \n\nBecause of its difficult terrain (the island is a dormant volcano rising out of the sea), modern conveniences were slow in coming to Saba. In 1938, construction began to connect its four villages with a road – a feat which engineers had said was impossible due to the island's perilous landscape. Full-time electricity only became available in the 1970s. Its houses have a quaint, cottage look with red roofs. The lifestyle is still slow and old-fashioned with little nightlife, even with the emergence of an ecotourism industry in the last few decades. Sabans are proud of their history of environmental conservation, calling Saba “The Unspoiled Queen.” \n\nSaban women continue to make two traditional island products, Saba lace and Saba Spice. Saba Lace is handstitched lace, which the island's women began making in the late 19th century and built into a thriving mail-order business with the United States. Saba Spice is a rum drink, brewed with a combination of spices. \n\nAs in other Caribbean locations, Sabans throw an annual Carnival. Saba's Carnival takes place the last week in July and includes parades, steel bands, competitions, and food. \n\nCatholicism is Saba's predominant religion. Other faiths practiced on the island include the Anglican Church, the Seventh-day Adventist Church, Wesleyan Holiness, Islam, Jehovah's Witnesses, and Judaism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10806718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10806718", "title": "Data sharing", "text": "Data sharing\n\nData sharing is the practice of making data used for scholarly research available to other investigators. Replication has a long history in science. The motto of The Royal Society is 'Nullius in verba', translated \"Take no man's word for it.\" Many funding agencies, institutions, and publication venues have policies regarding data sharing because transparency and openness are considered by many to be part of the scientific method.\n\nA number of funding agencies and science journals require authors of peer-reviewed papers to share any supplemental information (raw data, statistical methods or source code) necessary to understand, develop or reproduce published research. A great deal of scientific research is not subject to data sharing requirements, and many of these policies have liberal exceptions. In the absence of any binding requirement, data sharing is at the discretion of the scientists themselves. In addition, in certain situations governments and institutions prohibit or severely limit data sharing to protect proprietary interests, national security, and subject/patient/victim confidentiality. Data sharing may also be restricted to protect institutions and scientists from use of data for political purposes.\n\nData and methods may be requested from an author years after publication. In order to encourage data sharing and prevent the loss or corruption of data, a number of funding agencies and journals established policies on data archiving. Access to publicly archived data is a recent development in the history of science made possible by technological advances in communications and information technology. To take full advantage of modern rapid communication may require consensual agreement on the criteria underlying mutual recognition of respective contributions. Models recognized for improving the timely sharing of data for more effective response to emergent infectious disease threats include the data sharing mechanism introduced by the GISAID Initiative.\n\nDespite policies on data sharing and archiving, data withholding still happens. Authors may fail to archive data or they only archive a portion of the data. Failure to archive data alone is not data withholding. When a researcher requests additional information, an author sometimes refuses to provide it. When authors withhold data like this, they run the risk of losing the trust of the science community.\n\nData sharing may also indicate the sharing of personal information on a social media platform.\n\nOn August 9, 2007, President Bush signed the America COMPETES Act (or the \"America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Act\") requiring civilian federal agencies to provide guidelines, policy and procedures, to facilitate and optimize the open exchange of data and research between agencies, the public and policymakers. See Section 1009.\n\nThe NIH Final Statement of Sharing of Research Data says:\nAllegations of misconduct in medical research carry severe consequences. The United States Department of Health and Human Services established an office to oversee investigations of allegations of misconduct, including data withholding. The website defines the mission:\n\nSome research organizations feel particularly strongly about data sharing. Stanford University's WaveLab has a philosophy about reproducible research and disclosing all algorithms and source code necessary to reproduce the research. In a paper titled \"WaveLab and Reproducible Research,\" the authors describe some of the problems they encountered in trying to reproduce their own research after a period of time. In many cases, it was so difficult they gave up the effort. These experiences are what convinced them of the importance of disclosing source code. The philosophy is described:\n\nThe Data Observation Network for Earth (DataONE) and Data Conservancy are projects supported by the National Science Foundation to encourage and facilitate data sharing among research scientists and better support meta-analysis. In environmental sciences, the research community is recognizing that major scientific advances involving integration of knowledge in and across fields will require that researchers overcome not only the technological barriers to data sharing but also the historically entrenched institutional and sociological barriers. Dr. Richard J. Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging has stated, \"the old model in which researchers jealously guarded their data is no longer applicable\".\n\nThe Alliance for Taxpayer Access is a group of organizations that support open access to government sponsored research. The group has expressed a \"Statement of Principles\" explaining why they believe open access is important. They also list a number of international public access policies. This is no more so than in timely communication of essential information to effectively respond to health emergencies. While public domain archives have been embraced for depositing data, mainly post formal publication, they have failed to encourage rapid data sharing during health emergencies, among them the Ebola and Zika, outbreaks. More clearly defined principles are required to recognize the interests of those generating the data while permitting free, unencumbered access to and use of the data (pre-publication) for research and practical application, such as those adopted by the GISAID Initiative to counter emergent threats from influenza.\n\n\nWithholding of data has become so commonplace in academic genetics that researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital published a journal article on the subject. The study found that \"Because they were denied access to data, 28% of geneticists reported that they had been unable to confirm published research.\"\n\nIn a 2006 study, it was observed that, of 141 authors of a publication from the American Psychology Association (APA) empirical articles, 103 (73%) did not respond with their data over a 6-month period. In a follow up study published in 2015, it was found that 246 out of 394 contacted authors of papers in APA journals did not share their data upon request (62%).\n\nA 2018 study reported on study of a random sample of 48 articles published during February–May 2017 in the \"Journal of Archaeological Science\" which found openly available raw data for 18 papers (53%), with compositional and dating data being the most frequently shared types. The same study also emailed authors of articles on experiments with stone artifacts that were published during 2009 and 2015 to request data relating to the publications. They contacted the authors of 23 articles and received 15 replies, resulting in a 70% response rate. They received five responses that included data files, giving an overall sharing rate of 20%.\n\nA study of scientists in training indicated many had already experienced data withholding. This study has given rise to the fear the future generation of scientists will not abide by the established practices.\n\nRequirements for data sharing are more commonly imposed by institutions, funding agencies, and publication venues in the medical and biological sciences than in the physical sciences. Requirements vary widely regarding whether data must be shared at all, with whom the data must be shared, and who must bear the expense of data sharing.\n\nFunding agencies such as the NIH and NSF tend to require greater sharing of data, but even these requirements tend to acknowledge the concerns of patient confidentiality, costs incurred in sharing data, and the legitimacy of the request. Private interests and public agencies with national security interests (defense and law enforcement) often discourage sharing of data and methods through non-disclosure agreements.\n\nData sharing poses specific challenges in participatory monitoring initiatives, for example where forest communities collect data on local social and environmental conditions. In this case, a rights-based approach to the development of data-sharing protocols can be based on principles of free, prior and informed consent, and prioritise the protection of the rights of those who generated the data, and/or those potentially affected by data-sharing.\n\n\n — discusses the international exchange of data in the natural sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "50110539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50110539", "title": "Dedication (art)", "text": "Dedication (art)\n\nIn art, a dedication is the creation or attribution of a work of art as a tribute to or in honor of a person, place, or thing. The dedicatee may be the commissioner, conductor, premiere performer or musical ensemble, or patron. The work may be memorial.\n\nIn music, examples include many of Beethoven's works, such as the Piano Sonata Op. 109, dedicated to his friend Antonie Brentano's daughter Maximiliane.\n\nIn literature, examples include Vladimir Nabokov's dedication of works to his wife Véra.\n\n"}
{"id": "8395427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8395427", "title": "Economics of the arts and literature", "text": "Economics of the arts and literature\n\nEconomics of the arts and literature or cultural economics (used below for convenience) is a branch of economics that studies the economics of creation, distribution, and the consumption of works of art, literature and similar creative and/or cultural products. For a long time, the concept of the \"arts\" were confined to visual arts (e.g., painting) and performing arts (music, theatre, dance) in the Anglo-Saxon tradition. Usage has widened since the beginning of the 1980s with the study of cultural industry (cinema, television programs, book and periodical publishing and music publishing) and the economy of cultural institutions (museums, libraries, historic buildings). The field is coded as in the \"Journal of Economic Literature\" classification system used for article searches.\n\nCultural economics is concerned with the arts in a broad sense. The goods considered have creative content, but that is not enough to qualify as a cultural good. Designer goods such as clothes and drapes are not considered usually to be works of art or culture. Cultural goods are those with a value determined by symbolic content rather than physical characteristics. (For further considerations, see also Cultural Institutions Studies). Economic thinking has been applied in ever more areas in the last decennia, including pollution, corruption and education.\n\nWorks of art and culture have a specific quality, which is their uniqueness. While other economic goods, such as crude oil or wheat are generic, interchangeable commodities (given a specific grade of the product), there is only one example of a famous painting such as the Mona Lisa, and only one example of Rodin's well-known sculpture \"The Thinker\". While copies or reproductions can be made of these works of art, and while many inexpensive posters of the Mona Lisa and small factory-made replicas of \"The Thinker\" are sold, neither full-size copies nor inexpensive reproductions are viewed as substitutes for the real artworks, in the way that a consumer views a pound of Grade A sugar from Cuba as a fully equivalent substitute for a pound of Grade A sugar from United States or Dominican Republic. As there is no equivalent item or substitute for these famous works of art, classical economist Adam Smith held it was impossible to value them. Alfred Marshall noted that the demand for a certain kind of cultural good can depend on its consumption: The more you have listened to a particular kind of music, the more you appreciate. In his economic framework, these goods do not have the usual decreasing marginal utility.\n\nKey academic works in cultural economics include those of Baumol and Bowen (Performing Arts, The Economic Dilemma, 1966), of Gary Becker on addictive goods, and of Alan Peacock (public choice). This summary has been divided into sections on the economic study of the performing arts, on the market of individual pieces of art, the art market in cultural industries, the economics of cultural heritage and the labour market in the art sector.\n\nThe seminal paper by William Baumol and Bowen introduced the term cost disease for a relative cost growth of live performances. This cost growth explains the increasing dependency of this kind of art on state subsidies. It occurs when the consumable good is labour itself. To understand this phenomenon, compare the change in the cost of performing the Molière play \"Tartuffe\" in 1664 and in 2007 with the change in cost of calculating a large number of sums from an accounting ledger. In 1664, you needed two hours and twelve actors to perform Molière's play, and it would take, say, twelve accountants working for two hours to add up all the sums in an accounting ledger. In 2007, a single accountant with a $10 calculator can add the sums in 20 minutes, but you still need two hours and twelve actors for the Molière play. Artists must make a considerable investment in human capital (e.g., training), and needs to be paid accordingly. The artists' pay needs to rise along with that of the population in general. As the latter is following the general productivity in the economy, the cost of a play will rise with general productivity, while the actors' productivity does not rise.\n\nThere are two lines of thought in subsequent literature on the economics of the performing arts:\n\n\nTwo segments of the market in the visual arts can be distinguished: works of art that are familiar and have a history, and contemporary works that are more easily influenced by fashion and new discoveries. Both markets, however, are oligopolistic, i.e., there are limited numbers of sellers and buyers (oligopsony). Two central questions on the working of the markets are: How are prices determined, and what is the return on artworks, compared to the return on financial assets?\n\nComponents of a work of art, like raw stone, tubes of paint or unpainted canvas, in general have a value much lower than the finished products, such as a sculpture or a finished painting. Also, the amount of labour needed to produce an item does not explain the big price differences between works of art. It seems that the value is much more dependent on potential buyers', and experts' perception of it. This perception has three elements: First, social value, which is the social status the buyer has by owning it. The artist thus has an \"artistic capital\". Second, the artistic value, compared to contemporary works, or as importance to later generations. Third, the price history of the item, if a buyer uses this for his expectation of a future price at which he might sell the item again (given the oligopolistic market structure).\nThree kinds of economic agents determine these values. Specific experts like gallery owners or museum directors use the first, social value. Experts like art historians and art professors use the second, artistic value. Buyers who buy works of art as an investment use the third, the price history and expectations for future price increases.\n\nSome major financial institutions, banks and insurance companies, have had considerable return rates on investments in art works in the 1990s. These rates have not slowed down at the same time as the rates on stock exchanges, in the early 90's. This may indicate a diversification opportunity. Apart from this evidence of successful investment, the amount of data available has stimulated study of the market. Many works are sold on auctions. These transactions are thus very transparent. This has made it possible to establish price databases, with prices of some items going back to 1652. Empirical studies have shown that, on average, the return on works of art has been lower than that on equity, with a volatility that is at least as high. An intangible gain in terms of pleasure of having a work of art could explain this partly. However, before interpreting the figures, it should be borne in mind that art is often exempt of many kinds of taxes. In 1986, Baumol made an estimate of an average yearly rate of return of 0.55 percent for works of art, against a rate of return of 2.5 percent for financial assets, over a 20-year period.\n\nSome famous artworks such as the \"Mona Lisa\" painting are not reproducible (at least in the sense of creating another copy that would be seen as equivalent in value), but there are many cultural goods whose value does not depend on a single, individual copy. Books, recordings, movies get some of their value from the existence of many copies of the original. These are the products of major cultural industries, which are the book industry, the music industry and the film industry. These markets are characterized by:\n\nThe important cultural industries tend to have an oligopolistic market structure. The market is dominated by a few major companies, with the rest of the market consisting of many small companies. The latter may act as a filter or as \"gatekeepers\" for the artistic supply. A small company with a successful artist or good quality roster can be bought by one of the major companies. Big conglomerates, pooling TV and film production, have existed for decades. The 1990s have seen some mergers extending beyond the industry as such, and mergers of hardware producers with content providers. Anticipated gains from synergy and market power have not been realised, and from the early 2000s there has been a trend towards organisation along sector lines.\n\nCultural heritage is reflected in goods and real estate. Management and regulation of museums has come under study in this area.\n\nMuseums, which have a conservatory role, and provide exhibitions to the general public, can be commercial, or on a non-profit base. In the second case, as they provide a public good, they pose the problems related to these goods: should they be self-financing, or be subsidized ? One of the specific issues is the imbalance between the huge value of the collections in museums, and their budgets. Also, they are often located in places (city centres) where the cost of land is high, which limits their expansion possibilities. American museums exhibit only about half of their collection. Some museums in Europe, like the Pompidou Centre in France, show less than 5 percent of their collection. Apart from providing exhibitions, museums get proceeds from derived products, like catalogues and reproductions. They also produce at a more intangible level: They make collections. Out of so many pieces in the public domain, they make a selection based on their expertise, thus adding value to the mere existence of the items.\n\nThe dual goal of conservation and providing exhibitions obviously presents a choice. On the one hand the museum has, for conservation reasons, an interest in exhibiting as few items as possible, and it would select lesser known works and a specialized audience, to promote knowledge and research. On the other hand, the exhibition argument requires showing the major pieces from different cultures, to satisfy the demands from the public and to attract a large audience. When a government has made a choice about this, application of economic contract theory will help to implement this choice by showing how to use incentives to different managers (on the financial, conservatory side) to obtain the required result.\n\nMany countries have systems that protect historically significant buildings and structures. These are buildings or other structures that are deemed to have cultural importance or which are deemed to have heritage value. Owners get tax deductions or subsidies for restoration, in return for which they accept restrictions on modifications to the buildings or provide public access. Buildings that are often classified as heritage buildings include former or current Parliament buildings, cathedrals, courthouses, houses built in a recognized historical style, and even fairly regular houses, if the house was formerly the home of a famous politician, artist or inventor. Buildings with heritage status cannot typically be demolished. Depending on the nature of the heritage restrictions, the current owner may or may not be allowed to modify the outside or inside of the building. Such a system poses the same choice problems as museums do. There has been little study of this issue.\n\nThe labour market for artists is characterized by:\n\nThe term \"star system\", coined by Sherwin Rosen, is used to explain why a very small number of the artists and creators in the market, such as the celebrity A-list actors and top pop singers, earn most of the total earnings in a sector. Rosen's 1981 paper examined the economics of superstars to determine why “relatively small numbers of people earn enormous amounts of money and seem to dominate the fields in which they engage.” Rosen argues that in superstar markets, \"small differences in talent at the top of the distribution will translate into large differences in revenue.\" Rosen points out that \"...sellers of higher talent charge only slightly higher prices than those of lower talent, but sell much larger quantities; their greater earnings come overwhelmingly from selling larger quantities than from charging higher prices\".\n\nIn cultural industries, the uncertainty about the quality of a product plays a key role in this. The consumer does not really know how good the product is, until he or she has consumed it (think of a movie), and the producer is confronted with the typical uncertainty in a cultural industry. The consumer looks for guidance in the price, reputation, or a famous name on the cover or poster. As the producer understands this using a famous director, actor or singer affects demand, he or she is prepared to pay a lot for a name considered a sign of quality (a star). Indeed, authors like Adler and Ginsburgh have given evidence that star status is determined by chance: in a musical contest, results were highly correlated with the order of performance. This randomness has been used to explain why the labor supply in the sector remains excessive: given the extreme gains of a star, and an irrational behaviour, or particular preferences, with respect to chance, unsuccessful artists keep trying, even when they are earning their money mostly in a different trade, such as waiting tables. A second argument is the possibility of intangible returns to artists' labour in terms of social status and lifestyle. For example, even a struggling DJ spends most of her time onstage on nightclubs and raves, which for some people is a desirable outcome.\n\nA case has been made for the existence of a different structure in the production of cultural goods . (See Cultural Institutions Studies.) An artist often considers a product to be an expression of himself, while the ordinary craftsperson is only concerned with his product, as far as it affects his/her pay or salary. For example, a painter who creates artworks that are displayed in museums may view her paintings as her artistic expression. On the other hand, a scene painter for a music theatre company may see herself as a craftsperson who is paid by the hour for doing painting. The artist may thus want restrict the use of his or her product, and he/she may object if a museum uses a reproduction of his/her painting to help sell cars or liquor. On the other hand, the scene painter may not object to commercial re-uses of her set painting, as she/he may see it just as a regular job.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41813997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41813997", "title": "El Mercado de Los Angeles", "text": "El Mercado de Los Angeles\n\nBuilt in 1968, El Mercado de Los Angeles is located in the Boyle Heights district of the city of Los Angeles east of the LA River and adjacent to East Los Angeles (an unincorporated portion of the County of Los Angeles often cited as the heart of the Mexican/American community) on the corner of 1st Street and Lorena Street and is accessible by the Metro Gold Line's Indiana Station located two blocks east. El Mercado is a three-floor indoor shopping center that offers dining and restaurant services, entertainment with live mariachi bands and shopping from various vendors. Although El Mercado is themed and represents a space that honors Mexico and Mexican culture, other Latinos from different ethnicities visit and shop there.\n\nAs an indoor shopping and meeting place, El Mercado also provides economic agency for Latinos as vendors selling music and films, exotic boots, belts, hats, a jewelry store, Mexican handcrafts, toys, cosmetics and services such as travel and sending money to their natal communities. Through selling and bartering Latino vendors engage in market exchanges that give agency to both the buyer and seller. El Mercado de Los Angeles is a place where Latinos can gather together for social purposes and to enjoy cultural experiences through food, music, and other forms of semiotics such as the paintings on the buildings and a mural of the Virgen de Guadalupe that link them to their native lands.\n\nIn East Los Angeles, Latinos constitute approximately 97.1% of the population. The heavy population of Latinos in East Los Angeles demonstrates the appropriation of space due to the process of de-territorialization. De-territorialization of culture refers to the weakening relationships between culture and place. Traditionally, many thought of culture restricted in localized terms, that is cultural was rooted to a particular geographical area, nation, or state but as East Los Angeles proves different, Latinos as cultural subjects, continue to traverse national borders bringing along with them their cultural practices and traditions in different territories. Territorialization on the other hand can be more understood as the process of turning a space into a place, as explained by Clara Irazabal and Ramzi Farhart in their article “Latino Communities in the United States: Place-Making in the Pre-World War II, Postwar, and Contemporary City”.\n\nEl Mercado is place that allows Latinos to assert their identity to foster a sense of belonging and build an intimate community space. Lourdes Gutierrez Nájera explains in her article “Hayandoese: Zapotec Migrant Expressions of Membership and Belonging” how Yalaltecos communities in Los Angeles affirm their identity and create a sense of ethnic belonging and community through participation in life cycle events and every day practices.\n\nIn his article “Swap meets, Flea Markets, and Open-Air Public Markets: a community and economic development model for low-income and underserved neighborhoods”, Jeffrey Edwin Juarez describes swap meets as regular meeting spaces that people treat as recreation places, much like a park, to spend time together. El Mercado is a community pace for Latino’s for both local’s and visitors to interact, spend time together and share experiences. One way El Mercado fosters its community space is through its large restaurant located on the third floor popularly known as El Mercadito, which is actually themed in to three different restaurants representing different cities of Mexico that make up the one large restaurant. El Mercadito restaurant is widely used by families and friends as a community space to make reservations for birthday celebrations, wedding receptions, quincenera receptions, and other banquet purposes.\n\nEl Mercado de Los Angeles serves a significant economic purpose for Latinos in the Los Angeles region. For the customers at El Mercado, the mercado provides affordable items that make shopping accessible for people across income levels. Also importantly, mercados foster relationships between vendors. Competition between vendors exists, but mercados in general often function as sites of both economic competition and collaboration between vendors within the mercado. The sense of competition is increased between the relationship between vendor and customer.\n\nAt swap meets, or mercados like El Mercado, complex relationships exist between buyers and sellers. Mercados are less bureaucratic spaces that corporate stores or even independent businesses. Vendors must apply for a permit at El Mercado, yet the vendors frequently make informal exchanges such as bartering/trading, or bargaining for prices. These informal market exchanges give agency to both the buyer and seller because each have a role in setting the terms of the business transaction. El Mercado de Los Ángeles not only provides cultural significance to the consumers who come to it, but it also provides a space for affordable items and economic negotiation.\n\nEl Mercado de Los Angeles offers a variety of services that help send off monetary remittances to Latin America. The Mercado also provides travel and calling services that help customers participate in the formation of cultural remittances to Latin America.\n\nEl Mercado also serves as an important site of cultural and monetary remittances between the United States and México, specifically. This mercado is a site of cultural that is the product of cultural hybridities. It is also a site that actively constructs cultural hybridities in the United States and México. El Mercado offers services to send money back to México securely as well as offering a currency exchange between pesos and United States dollars. Customers are able to send monetary remittance home to México by using the services at the Mercado. These services also assist vendors at the Mercado send some of the profits that they make at the Mercado to family members or communities abroad. These remittances are often directed at families or hometown associations.\n\nThe Mercado de Los Angeles also facilitates opportunities to create cultural remittances for Latino migrants. The mercado offers international calling services and a travel agency that sells international plane tickets. These services aid the fluid migratory process that physically transports migrants from their countries of origin to the countries of current residence. Along with the physical transportation, the Mercado specializes in transculturated goods and items. Many of the stores specialize in traditional Mexican clothing, books, or films. Yet, these traditional items are presented in a transculturated context, outside of México or Latin America. The mercado becomes a transculturated site that participates in cultural remittance when it facilitates the physical circular migration of migrants returning to their home country. Migrants returning home bring cultural remittances to the land that they left, and El Mercado de Los Angeles is an important site of this cultural remittance process in Los Angeles.\n\nEl Mercado de Los Angeles actively produces and shapes culture through a variety of ways. Semiotics describes a series of processes in which meaning is given to the world around humans. As humans interpret visual sensory clues about the world, meaning and culture are produced. At the mercado, mariachi music and visual murals are two principal ways that semiotic processes produce culture.\n\nThe cultural significance of El Mercado is complemented by presence of semiotic cultural elements such as music and the murals present at El Mercado. Semiotics is a process through which visuals, sounds, and other sensory experiences are given meaning and made socially significant. The process of semiotic meaning-making is present at the mercado, especially through the mariachi restaurants. The third floor of the mercado is composed of three restaurants that are well known for not only the food but the mariachi music that they all play. Dolores Inés Casillas, a theorist who writes about cultural semiotics, considers listening to sound a political practice. She views nostalgic sounds from home countries as a means of remembering the home country while constructing space in the land of migration. This sense of political listening supports the idea that El Mercado de Los Angeles is an active sight of cultural production through the visuals and music present at the mercado.\n\nThe Mercado de Los Angeles website also portrays some of the several murals that are present at this marketplace. The themed mariachi restaurants on the third floor provide a visual representation that constructs a cultural space in the heart of Los Angeles. From the Yucatán inspired dining room to an Aztec themed dining room, the mercado provides many visions of a traditional \"México lindo\". These visual forms are not representations of transnational scenes, but of pastoral memories of historical scenes. These pastoral visuals represent an idealized and fond memory of areas throughout Latin America. This space provides meaningful space for the customers of El Mercado de Los Angeles and contributes to the semiotic construction of cultural hybrities at the mercado. The semiotic components of meaning-making affect the Mercado of Los Angeles as a site of economic and cultural significance.\n\n"}
{"id": "59074998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59074998", "title": "Ethnic Power Relations", "text": "Ethnic Power Relations\n\nThe Ethnic Power Relations (EPR) dataset identifies all politically relevant ethnic groups, their size, and their access to state power in every country of the world with a population of at least 250,000 from 1946 to 2017. It includes annual data on over 800 groups and codes the degree to which their representatives hold executive-level state power, from total control of the government, power-sharing to overt political discrimination. Also, it provides information on regional autonomy arrangements.\n\nThe EPR data is maintained by researchers at the Chair of International Conflict Research at ETH Zurich. The current version of the EPR data is available in research-ready country-year and group-year format from the GROWup Research Front-End data portal. \n\nIn contrast to similar datasets, such as Minorities At Risk (MAR), the EPR list includes minority and majority groups. The EPR data is one of the most widely used datasets on ethnic groups in Social Sciences. Google Scholar lists 1035 references to the EPR.\n\nIn addition to ethnic power relations, the EPR dataset family includes information on ethnic groups’ settlement patterns, links to rebel organizations, transborder ethnic kin relations, ethnic refugee groups, and intraethnic cleavages. \n\nThe EPR data is composed on the basis of an online expert survey. Nearly one hundred country and regional experts were asked to identify the ethnic categories most salient for national politics in each country. \n\n"}
{"id": "57977652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57977652", "title": "Evolution in fiction", "text": "Evolution in fiction\n\nEvolution has been an important theme in fiction, including speculative evolution in science fiction, since the late 19th century, though it began before Charles Darwin's time, and reflects progressionist and Lamarckist views as well as Darwin's. Darwinian evolution is pervasive in literature, whether taken optimistically in terms of how humanity may evolve towards perfection, or pessimistically in terms of the dire consequences of the interaction of human nature and the struggle for survival. Other themes include the replacement of humanity, either by other species or by intelligent machines.\n\nCharles Darwin's evolution by natural selection, as set out in his 1859 \"On the Origin of Species\", is the dominant theory in modern biology, but it is accompanied as a philosophy and in fiction by two earlier evolutionary theories, progressionism (orthogenesis) and Lamarckism. Progressionism is the view that evolution is progress towards some goal of perfection, and that it is in some way directed towards that goal. Lamarckism, a philosophy that long predates Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck, is the view that evolution is guided by the inheritance of characteristics acquired by use or disuse during an animal's lifetime.\n\nIdeas of progress and evolution were popular, long before Darwinism, in the 18th century, leading to Nicolas-Edme Rétif's allegorical 1781 story \"\" (The Southern Hemisphere Discovery by a Flying Man). \n\nThe evolutionary biologist Kayla M. Hardwick quotes from the 2013 film \"Man of Steel\", where the villain Faora states: \"The fact that you possess a sense of morality, and we do not, gives us an evolutionary advantage. And if history has taught us anything, it is that evolution always wins.\" She points out that the idea that evolution wins is progressionist, while (she argues) the idea that evolution gives evil an advantage over the moral and good, driving the creation of formidable monsters, is a popular science fiction misconception. Hardwick gives as examples of the evolution of \"bad-guy traits\" the Morlocks in H. G. Wells's 1895 \"The Time Machine\", the bugs' caste system in Robert Heinlein's 1959 \"Starship Troopers\", and the effective colonisation by Don Siegel's 1956 \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" aliens.\n\nIn French 19th century literature, evolutionary fantasy was Lamarckian, as seen in Camille Flammarion's 1887 \"Lumen\" and his 1894 \"\", J.-H. Rosny's 1887 \"Les Xipéhuz\" and his 1910 \"La mort de la terre\", and Jules Verne's 1901 \"La grande forêt, le village aérien\". The Lamarckist philosopher Henri Bergson's creative evolution driven by the supposed élan vital likely inspired J. D. Beresford's English evolutionary fantasy, his 1911 \"The Hampdenshire Wonder\".\n\nDarwin's version of evolution has been widely explored in fiction, both in fantasies and in imaginative explorations of its grimmer \"survival of the fittest\" effects, with much attention focused on possible human evolution. H. G. Wells's \"The Time Machine\" already mentioned, his 1896 \"The Island of Dr Moreau\", and his 1898 \"The War of the Worlds\" all pessimistically explore the possible dire consequences of the darker sides of human nature in the struggle for survival. More broadly, Joseph Conrad's 1899 \"Heart of Darkness\" and R. L. Stevenson's 1886 \"Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\" portray Darwinian thinking in mainstream English literature.\n\nThe evolutionary biologist J. B. S. Haldane wrote an optimistic tale, \"The Last Judgement\", in the 1927 collection \"Possible Worlds\". This influenced Olaf Stapledon's 1930 \"Last and First Men\", which portrays the many species that evolved from humans in a billion-year timeframe. A different take on Darwinism is the idea, popular from the 1950s onwards, that humans will evolve more or less godlike mental capacity, as in Arthur C. Clarke's 1950 \"Childhood's End\" and Brian Aldiss's 1959 \"Galaxies Like Grains of Sand\". Another science fiction theme is the replacement of humanity on Earth by other species or intelligent machines. For instance, Olof Johannesson's 1966 \"The Great Computer\" gives humans the role of enabling intelligent machines to evolve, while Kurt Vonnegut's 1985 \"Galapagos\" is one of several novels to depict a replacement species.\n\n"}
{"id": "36791036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36791036", "title": "Genre-busting", "text": "Genre-busting\n\n\"Genre-busting\" is a term used occasionally in reviews of written work, music and visual art and refers to the author or artist's ability to cross over two or more established styles. For instance, in writing, to combine the horror genre with a western or hard-boiled detective story with science fiction. In music the term may refer to a song combining styles or defying classification.\n\nThe sound of the term calls to mind other uses of \"buster\" such as \"crime buster\", \"Gangbusters\", \"Ghostbusters\", \"Dambusters\", etc.\n\nCreative people don't always feel comfortable working within an established category. So genre-busting within the publishing world has become a type of literary fiction. The publisher Atticus Books has gone so far as to declare, on their website: \"We specialize in genre-busting literary fiction—i.e., titles that fall between the cracks of genre fiction and compelling narratives that feature memorable main characters.\"\n\nThe \"Video Movie Guide 1998\" stated in its foreword, \"In past years, reviews in VMG have been broken down into genre categories. Now, by popular demand, we are listing all movies together in alphabetical order... So many movies today mix genres... and there are no clear-cut categories anymore.\"\n\nInterviewed in \"Mustard\" comedy magazine in 2005, writer Alan Moore said: \"I mean, this is probably a bad thing to say to someone from a comedy magazine, but I don't like genre. I think that genre was made up by some spotty clerk in WH Smiths in the 1920s to make his worthless fucking job a little easier for him: \"it'd be easier if these books said what they were about on the spine.\"\" going on to say: \"In the novel I'm writing, Jerusalem, there's an awful lot of funny stuff, and there's supernatural stuff; there's stuff in the prologue that's as good as Stephen King and it's just a description of my brother walking through a block of flats. It's horror. And there's social history, there's political stuff. Why not mix it all together? Because that's what life is actually like. We laugh, we cry, you know, we buy the t-shirt.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "11020549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11020549", "title": "Germanische Altertumskunde Online", "text": "Germanische Altertumskunde Online\n\nGermanische Altertumskunde Online, formerly called Reallexikon der Germanischen Altertumskunde, is a German encyclopedia of the study of Germanic history and cultures, as well as the cultures that were in close contact with them.\n\nThe first edition of the \"Reallexikon der Germanischen Altertumskunde\" appeared in four volumes between 1911 and 1919, edited by Johannes Hoops. The second edition, under the auspices of the Göttingen Academy of Sciences and Humanities, was edited by Heinrich Beck (from vol 1, 1968/72), Heiko Steuer (from vol. 8, 1991/94), Rosemarie Müller (from 1992), and Dieter Geuenich (from vol. 13, 1999), and was published by Walter de Gruyter between 1969 and 2008.\n\nIn 2010, the most recent version was published, now renamed \"Germanische Altertumskunde Online\". Edited by Heinrich Beck, Sebastian Brather, Dieter Geuenich, Wilhelm Heizmann, Steffen Patzold, and Heiko Steuer, it is published online by De Gruyter, accessible via subscription.\n\n"}
{"id": "54095081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54095081", "title": "Goseck (monastery)", "text": "Goseck (monastery)\n\nGoseck, a monastery built on the foundations of a castle, as well as the vineyard of Dechantenberg is located in the municipality of Goseck of Saxony-Anhalt in Germany. It has been proposed by Germany for inscription in the List of World Heritage. The World Heritage nomination Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut is representative for the processes that shaped the continent during the High Middle Ages between 1000 and 1300: Christianization, the so-called “Landesausbau” and the dynamics of cultural exchange and transfer characteristic for this very period.\nGoseck and its vineyard is one of the eleven components of the cultural landscape Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut. Together with the agricultural features on the northern slopes of the Saale and the sandstone quarries used for the building of the monastery, this ensemble conveys the different forms of land use of the medieval monastery structures.\n\nGoseck Castle was part of a network of Frankish castles on the Saale River. It was founded around the year 800. The counts of Goseck were one of the noblest aristocratic families of the empire in the 10th and 11th century. Count Frederick I of Goseck had his center of power in Goseck . In 1041, Adalbert (archbishop of Hamburg-Bremen from 1043) founded a Benedictine monastery in the eastern part of the noble castle of Goseck. The minster was erected in 1046.\n\nIt is situated 9 kilometers northeast of Naumburg across the Saale Valley on the opposite bank. This monastery of the 11th century is a preserved and documented structure of the High Middle Ages. It was built to be visible from afar, offering lines of sight to most of the monuments in the nominated areas.\n\nThe crypt and choir of the monastery church display the very best of Salian architecture. Goseck is an example for the transformation of a noble family’s hereditary seat into a monastery with dynastic memorial tasks.\n\nIn the chronicles of the Benedictines of the Goseck monastery the terraced vineyard below the site is dated back to the year 1093; it is the oldest vineyard in continuous use in the nominated region. The Dechantenberg vineyard is exposed to the south. \nAround 1540, the monastery was secularized. Since 1997, Goseck is owned by the »Landesstiftung Dome und Schlösser Sachsen-Anhalt«, a state foundation endowed by the State of Saxony-Anhalt . Today, a European Centre for Music and Culture (“Europäisches Musik und Kulturzentrum”) resides in Goseck and offers a range of cultural activities. \n\n"}
{"id": "39211489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39211489", "title": "Hierarchy of death", "text": "Hierarchy of death\n\nHierarchy of death is a phrase used by journalists, social scientists, and academics to describe disproportionate amounts of media attention paid to various incidents of death around the world.\n\nDefinitions of the hierarchy of death vary, but several themes remain consistent in terms of media coverage: domestic deaths trump foreign deaths, deaths in the developed world trump deaths in the developing world, deaths of whites trump deaths of darker skinned people, and deaths in ongoing conflicts garner relatively little media attention.\nBritish media commentator Roy Greenslade has been credited with coining the term while writing on the newsworthiness of those who died during The Troubles. Greenslade continues to critique the phenomenon, including media reactions to the Boston Marathon bombings. \n\nNPR discussed the disparity in media coverage between the 2015 Beirut bombings and the November 2015 Paris attacks, which happened with a day of each other.\n\nScottish journalist Allan Massie has also written on the topic.\n\nThe hierarchy of death has been compared to missing white woman syndrome.\n"}
{"id": "1396834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1396834", "title": "High culture", "text": "High culture\n\nHigh culture encompasses the cultural products of aesthetic value, which a society collectively esteem as exemplary art. It may also include intellectual works considered to be of supreme philosophical, historical, or literary value, as well as the education which cultivates such aesthetic and intellectual pursuits. In popular usage, the term \"high culture\" identifies the culture of an upper class (an aristocracy) or of a status class (the intelligentsia); and also identifies a society’s common repository of broad-range knowledge and tradition (e.g. folk culture) that transcends the social-class system of the society. Sociologically, the term \"high culture\" is contrasted with the term \"low culture\", the forms of popular culture characteristic of the less-educated social classes, such as the barbarians, the Philistines, and \"hoi polloi\" (the masses).\n\nIn European history, high culture was understood as a cultural concept common to the humanities, until the mid-19th century, when Matthew Arnold introduced the term \"high culture\" in the book \"Culture and Anarchy\" (1869). The Preface defines culture as \"the disinterested endeavour after man’s perfection\" pursued, obtained, and achieved by effort to \"know the best that has been said and thought in the world.\" Such a literary definition of high culture also comprehends philosophy. Moreover, the philosophy of aesthetics proposed in high culture is a force for moral and political good. Critically, the term \"high culture\" is contrasted with the terms \"popular culture\" and \"mass culture\".\n\nIn \"Notes Towards the Definition of Culture\" (1948), T. S. Eliot said that high culture and popular culture are necessary and complementary parts of the culture of a society. In \"The Uses of Literacy\" (1957), Richard Hoggart presents the sociologic experience of the working-class man and woman in acquiring the cultural literacy, at university, which facilitates social upward mobility. In the U.S., Harold Bloom and F. R. Leavis pursued the definition of high culture, by way of the Western canon of literature.\nMedia theorist Steven Johnson writes that, unlike popular culture, \"the classics—and soon to be classics—are\" in their own right descriptions and explanations of the cultural systems that produced them.\" He says that \"a crucial way in which mass culture differs from high art\" is that individual works of mass culture are less interesting than the broader cultural trends which produced them.\n\nHistory of high culture in the West\n\nThe high culture of the West originated in the classical-world traditions of intellectual and aesthetic life in Ancient Greece (from c. 8th century BC – AD 147) and Ancient Rome (753 BC – AD 476). In the classical Greco-Roman tradition, the ideal mode of language was published and preserved in works of elevated style (correct grammar, syntax, and diction). Certain forms of language used by authors in valorized epochs were held up in antiquity and the Renaissance as eternal valid models and normative standards of excellence; e.g. the Attic dialect of ancient Greek spoken and written by the playwrights and philosophers of Periclean Athens (fifth century BC); and the form of classical Latin used in the \"Golden Age\" of Roman culture (c. 70 B.C. - AD 18) represented by such figures as Cicero and Virgil.This form of education was known to the Greeks as παιδεία, which was translated by the Romans into Latin as \"humanitas\" 'since it reflected a form of education aiming at the refinement of human nature, rather than the acquisition of technical or vocational skills. Indeed, the Greco-Roman world tended to see such manual, commercial, and technical labor as subordinate to purely intellectual activities. From the idea of the \"free\" man with sufficient leisure to pursue such intellectual and aesthetic refinement, arose the classical distinction between the \"liberal\" arts which are intellectual and done for their own sake, as against the \"servile\"or \"mechanical\" arts which were associated with manual labor and done to earn a living.\nThis implied an association between high culture and the upper classes whose inherited wealth provided such time for intellectual cultivation. The leisured gentleman not weighed down by the necessity of earning a living, was free to devote himself to activities proper to such a \"free man\" – those deemed to involve true excellence and nobility as opposed to mere utility.\nDuring the Renaissance, the classical intellectual values of the fully rediscovered Græco–Roman culture were the cultural capital of the upper classes(and the aspiring), and aimed at the complete development of human intellectual, aesthetic, and moral faculties. This ideal associated with humanism (a later term derived from the humanities or \"studia humanitatis\"), was communicated in Renaissance Italy through institutions such as the Renaissance court schools. Renaissance humanism soon spread through Europe becoming much of the basis of upper class education for centuries. For the socially ambitious man and woman who means to rise in society, \"The Book of the Courtier\" (1528), by Baldasare Castiglione, instructs the reader to acquire and possess knowledge of the Græco–Roman Classics, being education integral to the social-persona of the aristocrat. A key contribution of the Renaissance was the elevation of painting and sculpture to a status equal to the liberal arts (hence the visual arts lost for elites any lingering negative association with manual artisanship.) The early Renaissance treatises of Leon Battista Alberti were instrumental in this regard.\n\nThe evolution of the concept of high culture initially was defined in educational terms largely as critical study and knowledge of the Græco–Roman arts and humanities which furnished much of the foundation for European cultures and societies. However, aristocratic patronage through most of the modern era was also pivotal to the support and creation of new works of high culture across the range of arts, music, and literature. The subsequent prodigious development of the modern European languages and cultures meant that the modern definition of the term \"high culture\" embraces not only Greek and Latin texts, but a much broader canon of select literary, philosophical, historical, and scientific books in both ancient and modern languages. Of comparable importance are those works of art and music considered to be of the highest excellence and broadest influence (e.g. the Parthenon, the painting and sculpture of Michelangelo, the music of Mozart, etc). Together these texts and art works constitute the exemplary artifacts representing the high culture of the Western world. \nIn the Western and some East Asian traditions, art that demonstrates the imagination of the artist is accorded the status of high art. In the West this tradition began in Ancient Greece, was reinforced in the Renaissance, and by Romanticism, which eliminated the hierarchy of genres within the fine arts, which was established in the Renaissance. In China there was a distinction between the literati painting by the scholar-officials and the work produced by common artists, working in largely different styles, or the decorative arts such as Chinese porcelain which were produced by unknown craftsmen working in large factories. In both China and the West the distinction was especially clear in landscape painting, where for centuries imaginary views, produced from the imagination of the artist, were considered superior works.\n\nIn socially-stratified Europe and the Americas, a first-hand immersion to the high culture of the West, the Grand Tour of Europe, was a rite of passage that complemented and completed the book education of a gentleman, from the nobility, the aristocracy, and the bourgeoisie, with a worldly perspective of society and civilisation. The post-university tour of the cultural centres of Europe was a social-class benefit of the cultural capital transmitted through the high-status institutions (schools, academies, universities) meant to produce the ideal gentleman of that society. \n\nThe European concept of high culture included cultivation of refined etiquette and manners; the education of taste in the fine arts such as sculpture and painting; an appreciation of classical music and opera in its diverse history and myriad forms; knowledge of the humane letters (\"literae humaniores\") represented by the best Greek and Latin authors, and more broadly of the liberal arts traditions (e.g. philosophy, history, drama, rhetoric, and poetry) of Western civilisation, as well as a general acquaintance with important concepts in theology, science, and political thought.\n\nMuch of high culture consists of the appreciation of what is sometimes called \"high art\". This term is rather broader than Arnold's definition and besides literature includes music, visual arts (especially painting), and traditional forms of the performing arts (including some cinema). The decorative arts would not generally be considered high art.\n\nThe cultural products most often regarded as forming part of high culture are most likely to have been produced during periods of high civilization, for which a large, sophisticated, and wealthy urban-based society provides a coherent and conscious aesthetic framework, and a large-scale milieu of training, and, for the visual arts, sourcing materials and financing work. Such an environment enables artists, as near as possible, to realize their creative potential with as few as possible practical and technical constraints. Although the Western concept of high culture naturally concentrates on the Greco-Roman tradition, and its resumption from the Renaissance onwards, such conditions existed in other places at other times.\n\nArt music (or serious music or erudite music) is an umbrella term used to refer to musical traditions implying advanced structural and theoretical considerations and a written musical tradition. The notion of art music is a frequent and well-defined musicological distinction – musicologist Philip Tagg, for example, refers to art music as one of an \"axiomatic triangle consisting of 'folk', 'art' and 'popular' musics\". He explains that each of these three is distinguishable from the others according to certain criteria, with high cultural music often performed to an audience whilst folk music would traditionally be more participatory. In this regard, \"art music\" frequently occurs as a contrasting term to \"popular music\" and to \"traditional\" or \"folk music\".\n\nArt film is the result of filmmaking which is typically a serious, independent film aimed at a niche market rather than a mass market audience. Film critics and film studies scholars typically define an \"art film\" using a \"...canon of films and those formal qualities that mark them as different from mainstream Hollywood films\", which includes, among other elements: a social realism style; an emphasis on the authorial expressivity of the director or writer; and a focus on the thoughts and dreams of characters, rather than presenting a clear, goal-driven story. According to the film scholar David Bordwell, \"art cinema itself is a film genre, with its own distinct conventions.\"\n\nThe term has always been susceptible to attack for elitism, and, in response, many proponents of the concept devoted great efforts to promoting high culture among a wider public than the highly educated bourgeoisie whose natural territory it was supposed to be. There was a drive, beginning in the 19th century, to open museums and concert halls to give the general public access to high culture. Figures such as John Ruskin and Lord Reith of the BBC in Britain, Leon Trotsky and others in Communist Russia, and many others in America and throughout the western world have worked to widen the appeal of elements of high culture such as classical music, art by old masters and the literary classics.\n\nWith the widening of access to university education, the effort spread there, and all aspects of high culture became the objects of academic study, which with the exception of the classics had not often been the case until the late 19th century. University liberal arts courses still play an important role in the promotion of the concept of high culture, though often now avoiding the term itself.\n\nEspecially in Europe, governments have been prepared to subsidize high culture through the funding of museums, opera and ballet companies, orchestras, cinema, public broadcasting stations such as BBC Radio 3, ARTE, and in other ways. Organizations such as the Arts Council of Great Britain, and in most European countries, whole ministries administer these programs. This includes the subsidy of new works by composers, writers and artists. There are also many private philanthropic sources of funding, which are especially important in the US, where the federally funded Corporation for Public Broadcasting also funds broadcasting. These may be seen as part of the broader concept of official culture, although often a mass audience is not the intended market.\n\nThe relations between high culture and mass culture are concerns of cultural studies, media studies, and critical theory, sociology, Postmodernism and Marxist philosophy. In the essay \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" (1936), Walter Benjamin explored the relations of value of the arts (high and mass) when subjected to industrial reproduction. The critical theoreticians Theodor W. Adorno and Antonio Gramsci interpreted the high-art and mass-art cultural relations as an instrument of social control, with which the ruling class maintain their cultural hegemony upon society.\n\nFor the Orientalist Ernest Renan and for the rationalist philosopher Ernest Gellner, high culture was conceptually integral to the politics and ideology of nationalism, as a requisite part of a healthy national identity. Gellner expanded the conceptual scope of the phrase in \"Nations and Nationalism\" (1983) stating that high art is \"a literate, codified culture, which permits context-free communication\" among cultures.\n\nIn \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste\" (1979), the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu proposed that æsthetic taste (cultural judgement), derived from social class, in establishing definitions of high art by the practice of human activities such as social etiquette, gastronomy, oenology, military service. That in such activities of aesthetic judgement, the ruling-class person uses social codes unknown to middle- and the lower-class persons in the pursuit and practice activities of taste.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50262203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50262203", "title": "Human uses of birds", "text": "Human uses of birds\n\nHuman uses of birds have included both economic uses such as food and symbolic uses such as art, music and religion, for thousands of years.\n\nIn terms of economic uses, birds have been hunted for food since Palaeolithic times. They have been captured and bred as poultry to provide meat and eggs since at least the time of ancient Egypt. Some species have been used, too, to help locate or to catch food, as with cormorant fishing and the use of honeyguides. Feathers have long been used for bedding, as well as for quill pens and for fletching arrows.\nToday, many species face habitat loss and other threats caused by humans; bird conservation groups work to protect birds and to influence governments to do so.\n\nBirds have appeared in the mythologies and religions of many cultures since ancient Sumer. For example, the dove was the symbol of the ancient Mesopotamian goddess Inanna, the Canaanite mother goddess Asherah, and the Greek goddess Aphrodite. Athena, the Greek goddess of wisdom, had a little owl as her symbol, and, in ancient India, the peacock represented Mother Earth. Birds have often been seen as symbols, whether bringing bad luck and death, being sacred, or being used in heraldry. \nIn terms of entertainment, raptors have been used in falconry, while cagebirds have been kept for their song. Other birds have been raised for the traditional sports of cockfighting and pigeon racing. Birdwatching, too, has grown to become a major leisure activity.\nBirds feature in a wide variety of art forms, including in painting, sculpture, poetry and prose, film and fashion. Birds also appear in music as well as traditional dance and ballet. In certain cases, such as the bird-and-flower painting of China, birds are central to an artistic genre.\n\nCulture consists of the social behaviour and norms found in human societies and transmitted through social learning. Cultural universals in all human societies include expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing. The concept of material culture covers physical expressions such as technology, architecture and art, whereas immaterial culture includes principles of social organization, mythology, philosophy, literature, and science. This article describes the roles played by birds in human culture, so defined.\n\nBirds are important economically, providing substantial amounts of food, especially protein, largely but not exclusively from the domestic chicken; feathers and down are used for bedding, insulation, and other purposes.\n\nBirds were among the wild animals hunted for food before the Neolithic revolution and the development of agriculture. For example, in the Epipaleolithic of the Levant, between c. 14,500 and 11,500 BP, both waterfowl and migratory birds were eaten. Archaeologists have studied the return in terms of energy from captured food compared to the energy expended to capture it; birds provide a smaller return than larger game such as deer, but better than many plant materials. For example, waterfowl captured in a drive can yield a return of around 2,000 kcal/hour, whereas an antelope can yield as much as 31,000 kcal/hour, and wild rye around 1,000 kcal/hour.\n\nBirds have been domesticated and bred as poultry for use as food for at least four thousand years. The most important species is the chicken. It appears to have been domesticated by 5000 BC in northeastern China, likely for cockfighting, and only later used for food. In ancient Egypt, poultry including ducks, geese, and pigeons were captured in nets and then bred in captivity.\n\nChicken now provides some 20% of the animal protein eaten by the world's human population in the form of meat and eggs. Chickens are often raised intensively in battery farms; this facilitates production but has been criticised on animal welfare grounds. Other species including ducks, geese, pheasants, guineafowl and turkeys are significant economically around the world. Less commonly raised species such as the ostrich are starting to be farmed for their meat, which is low in cholesterol; they have also been kept for their feathers, and for leather from their skin.\n\nBirds are hunted in many countries around the world. In the developed world, ducks such as mallard, wigeon, shoveler and teal have for centuries been captured by wildfowlers, while pheasants, partridges, grouse, and snipe are among the terrestrial birds that are hunted for sport, generally with guns. In other parts of the world, traditional subsistence hunting still continues, as in rural Northern Papua, where cassowaries, crowned pigeons, hornbills and megapodes are captured for food. Seabirds such as muttonbirds, penguins and auks have been hunted for food, formerly with sufficient intensity to threaten many populations and to make some, such as the great auk, extinct. Seabird hunting continues at more moderate levels today, for instance with the traditional Māori harvest of sooty shearwater chicks.\n\nThe archaeological and historical records suggest interdependence between humans and vultures for millions of years. Like other animal species, early hominins probably used these birds as beacons signalling the location of meat, in the form of carcasses, in the landscape.\n\nCormorant fishing is a traditional fishing method in which trained cormorants are used to catch fish in rivers. Historically, cormorant fishing has taken place in Japan and China since about 960 AD.\n\nThe greater honeyguide guides people in some parts of Africa to the nests of wild bees. A guiding bird attracts a person's attention with a chattering call, and flies in short bounds towards a bees' nest. When the human honey-hunter has taken their honey, the honeyguide eats what is left. The Boran people of East Africa use a specific whistle, which doubles the encounter rate with honeyguides; they find that using a honeyguide reduces the time to find honey by two-thirds. The Bushmen of the Kalahari thank the honeyguide with a gift of honey.\n\nFeathers are used to make warm and soft bedding, including eiderdowns from the belly down of the eider duck, and winter clothing as they have high \"loft\", trapping a large amount of air for their weight. \nFeathers were used also for quill pens, for fletching arrows, and to decorate fishing lures.\n\nBird bones were used by stone age peoples to make awls and other tools.\nGuano, the droppings of seabirds, rich in nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, was once important as an agricultural fertiliser and is still used in organic farming. The War of the Pacific in 1865 was in part about which country had control of the territory containing valuable guano sources. \nToday, birds such as the chicken and the Japanese quail are used as model organisms in ornithological and more generally in biological research, for instance in toxicology.\n\nFeathers have been important and colourful items of clothing and fashion from before the birth of civilisation. Elaborate, brightly coloured headdresses containing feathers are worn by indigenous peoples of the Americas such as the Bororo of the Mato Grosso. In Polynesia, \"sega ula\" lory bird feathers were major trade items, used to decorate high quality mats in Samoa and Tonga.\nIn Western culture, feathers are used in boas and decorating elaborate hats and other items of ladies' clothing. Feathers in fashion were a status symbol well into the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. The Belle Epoque draped its clothing in feathers as ornaments. Ostrich plumes were a luxury commodity in Europe for centuries, leading to serious harm to wild ostrich populations, and subsequent establishment of ostrich farms. Classical 1930s Hollywood films used feathers in abundance, arguably as a metaphor for female sexuality. For example, in the 1935 musical \"Top Hat\", Ginger Rogers danced \"Cheek to Cheek\" covered in white plumes that emphasised her movements. Late twentieth century designers such as Yves Saint Laurent and Alexander McQueen used feathers to make fashion statements.\n\nRaptors from eagles to small falcons have for centuries been used in falconry, often to catch other birds, whether for pleasure or for food.\n\nCockfighting is an ancient spectator sport. It formed part of the culture of the ancient Indians, Chinese, Greeks, and Romans. It continues to be practised in South America and across South and Southeast Asia, often combined with betting on the result. It is practised in religious ceremonies in Hindu temples in Bali, but is now banned in many countries on grounds of cruelty.\n\nPigeon racing involves releasing specially trained racing pigeons to return to their homes over a measured distance of between and . The sport was popularised in Belgium in the 19th century, and is now competitive worldwide. Also in Belgium and Flanders is \"vinkensport\", in which participants have male chaffinches compete to make the most bird calls in an hour.\n\nBirdwatching has since the nineteenth century become a major leisure activity. Millions of people around the world, amounting to nearly half of all households in some developed countries, put out birdfeeders to attract birds to their gardens or windowsills, at a cost of billions of dollars each year.\n\nCagebirds such as canaries, budgerigars, cockatoos, lovebirds, quails, finches, and parrots are popular pets, whether for their song, their behaviour, their colourful plumage, or their ability to mimic speech. Among reasons for their popularity is that they can be kept in homes too small or otherwise unsuitable for dogs or cats. The cagebird trade in some parts of the world threatens certain species with extinction, when birds are illegally captured in the wild. For example, in Indonesia, at least 13 species are close to extinction including the Indonesian national bird, the Javan hawk-eagle, while five subspecies including the scarlet-breasted lorikeet may have become extinct in the wild.\nPet birds are kept in their millions, as are domestic fowls, bantams, and pigeons. These last had an important effect on evolutionary biology, as Charles Darwin took an especial interest in pigeon fancying, adopted the hobby himself, and made use of the wide variation between breeds as an argument for the power of selection in his 1859 \"Origin of Species\".\n\nThe nature writers Mark Cocker and Richard Mabey, reviewing people's love of birds, observe that people are touched by feelings for birds in a variety of ways, such as enjoying the lapwing's \"joyous display\", or the \"beauty and mystery\" of the tawny owl's call on a cold winter's night. They argue that people feel the simple companionship of birds, are inspired by them to create art, let them mark the seasons and provide a sense of place, and use them \"as symbols of joy and love\". A former statesman, Edward Grey, 1st Viscount Grey of Fallodon, was able to express his feeling for birds in his 1927 book \"The Charm of Birds\". Such feelings, in turn, have stimulated the intention to conserve birds and their habitats. Around the same time as Grey was writing, the first conservation organisations were coming into being, starting in Britain, triggered by the rapid disappearance of familiar species as they were captured for their feathers or for food. A substantial folklore rich in symbolism has accrued around birds; it was documented early in the 20th century as something that was already fading from memory. For example, the house sparrow has been associated with \"sex and lechery\" since ancient Egypt, where libidinousness was written with the sparrow hieroglyph. In the same vein, in the classical era the sparrow was sacred to the goddess of love, Aphrodite or Venus; the sparrow features in an erotic poem by Catullus for the same reason. Chaucer describes the summoner in his \"Canterbury Tales\" as being as \"lecherous as a sparwe\".\n\nStudies have shown how important birds are to individual societies, touching on all aspects of life. In Andean societies such as the Moche (1–800 AD), Nazca (100–700 AD) and Chimu (1150–1450 AD), bright parrot and macaw feathers were traded from the Amazon rainforest to the mountains and the Pacific coast, while guano was collected as a fertiliser, and artists and craftsmen were inspired to create textiles, metal jewellery, and ceramics depicting condors, cormorants, ducks, hummingbirds, owls, vultures, and waders. Their religions, too, endowed birds with symbolic meaning.\n\nThe Audubon society, reviewing the importance of birds in 2013, obtained statements from many people with differing perspectives. Among them, the society's science director, Gary Langham, noted that what is good for birds is also good for humans. The writer David Allen Sibley observed that birds bring a little wildness into parks and gardens. The writer Barbara Kingsolver noted that birds are part of life on earth. The actress Jane Alexander wrote \"Birds remind us that there are angels.\" The forensic ornithologist Carla Dove noted that birds are biological indicators of habitat health, climate change, and the coming of spring.\n\nBirds have been seen as symbols, and used as such, though perceptions of bird species vary widely across cultures: some birds have a positive image in some regions, a negative image in others. Owls are associated with bad luck, witchcraft, and death in parts of Africa, but are regarded as wise across much of Europe. Hoopoes were considered sacred in Ancient Egypt and symbols of virtue in Persia, but were thought of as thieves across much of Europe, and harbingers of war in Scandinavia.\n\nIn heraldry, birds, especially eagles, often appear in coats of arms.\nIn Britain, over 3000 pubs have birds in their names, sometimes commemorating a local family with a bird from their coat of arms, sometimes for other reasons. There are dozens of pubs named \"Crow's Nest\" (nautical), \"Dog & Duck\" (wildfowling), \"Eagle & Child\" (heraldic), and \"Falcon\" (heraldic, or falconry), while over 600 pubs are named for swans.\n\nBirds, too, may symbolise human attributes such as stupidity or talkativeness. People have been called \"birdbrain[ed]\" or \"cuckoo\", among many other animal epithets. Birds feature prominently in often derogatory similes like \"noisy as a goose\" and metaphors including \"to parrot\".\n\nBirds have appeared in mythology and religion in a variety of guises.\n\nBirds have featured as gods from the time of ancient Egypt, where the sacred ibis was venerated as a symbol of the god Thoth. In India, the peacock is perceived as Mother Earth among Dravidian peoples, while the Mughal and Persian emperors displayed their godlike authority by sitting in a Peacock Throne. In the Yazidi religion, Melek Taus the \"Peacock Angel\" is the central figure of their faith. In the cult of Makemake, the Tangata manu birds of Easter Island served as chiefs.\n\nBirds have been seen as spirit messengers of the gods. In Norse mythology, Hugin and Munin were ravens who whispered news into the ears of the god Odin. In the Etruscan and Roman religions of ancient Italy, priests were involved in augury, interpreting the words of birds while the \"auspex\" watched their activities to foretell events. In the Inca and Tiwanaku empires of South America, birds are depicted transgressing the boundaries between the earthly and underground spiritual realms. Indigenous peoples of the central Andes maintain legends of birds passing to and from metaphysical worlds. The mythical chullumpi bird is said to mark the existence of a portal between such worlds, and to transform itself into a llama. Among the Parsees of India and Iran, and among practitioners of Vajrayana Buddhism who believe in the transmigration of souls in Sikkim, Mongolia, Bhutan and Nepal, sky burial has been practised for centuries. In this ritual, corpses are left exposed for griffon vultures to pick clean. The practice is declining, not least because of the loss of most of the vulture population across South Asia to accidental poisoning by the anti-inflammatory veterinary drug diclofenac.\n\nBirds have sometimes served as religious symbols. In ancient Mesopotamia, doves were prominent animal symbols of Inanna (later known as Ishtar), the goddess of love, sexuality, and war, and, in the ancient Levant, doves were used as symbols for the Canaanite mother goddess Asherah. In ancient Greece, Athena, the goddess of wisdom and patron deity of the city of Athens, had a little owl as her symbol. In Greek iconography, Athena is often shown accompanied by an owl and the owl was used as a symbol of Athens on Athenian coinage. In classical antiquity, doves were sacred to the Greek goddess Aphrodite, who absorbed this association with doves from Inanna-Ishtar. Aphrodite frequently appears with doves in ancient Greek pottery and, during Aphrodite's main festival, the Aphrodisia, her altars would be purified with the blood of a sacrificed dove.\n\nIn Medieval Christian iconography, the cormorant's \"wing-drying\" pose represents the Christian cross, and hence is a figure of Christ. In John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", on the other hand, the bird's cross-like pose is a travesty of Christ: \"Then up he flew, and... Sat like a cormorant; yet not true life Thereby regained, but sat devising death To them who lived\".\n\nIn mythology, birds were sometimes monsters, like the Roc and the Māori's \"Pouākai\", a giant bird capable of snatching humans. In Persian mythology, the simurgh was a gigantic bird, the first to come into existence, and it nested on the tree of plant life that grew in the great ocean beside the tree of immortality. Its task was to shake the seeds of all the plants out of the tree.\n\nBirds have been depicted throughout the arts from the earliest times to the present, including in painting and sculpture, in literature, in music, in theatre, in traditional dance and ballet, and in film.\n\nBirds have been depicted in paintings, sculptures and other art objects from the earliest times, including in cave paintings.\n\nIn Chinese art, bird-and-flower painting forms one of the three major subjects (the others being landscapes and figures), from the time of the Five Dynasties in the 10th century. Huang Quan created the naturalistic \"xiesheng\" style for bird paintings.\nBirds have long been celebrated in the arts of Japan, including in painting, woodblock printing, cloisonné, ceramics and indeed poetry from the 18th and 19th centuries. Print artists like Utamaro and Hokusai made use of Western and Chinese influences to give a sophisticated effect, while Hiroshige reworked the traditional bird-and-flower genre.\n\nIn modern art, some of the paintings of Joan Miró include \"A tangle of lines and small, colored ideograms suggesting birds, allegorical characters, stars, and animals\". In modern sculpture, Pablo Picasso's 1932 bronze \"Coq\" (Cockerel) is an assemblage of \"spiky, elongated forms.\"\n\nIn public statuary, the Magyars's mythical Turul symbolises national power and nobility, and is represented by many statues in Hungary, including the largest bird statue in the world, on a mountain near Tatabánya.\n\nBirds have been celebrated in poetry since ancient times, when for example the Roman poet Catullus wrote in one of his most famous works about a girl and her pet sparrow in \"Passer, deliciae meae puellae\", \"Sparrow, delight of my girl\".\n\nBirds featured in medieval poetry, for example forming the characters of the 1177 Persian poem \"The Conference of the Birds\", where the birds of the world assemble under the wisest bird, the hoopoe, to decide who is to be their king.\n\nIn English romantic poetry, John Keats's 1819 \"Ode to a Nightingale\" and Percy Bysshe Shelley's 1820 \"To a Skylark\" are popular classics. Bird poems by Gerard Manley Hopkins include \"Sea and Skylark\" and \"The Windhover\" (on the kestrel). More recently, Ted Hughes's 1970 collection of poems about a bird character, \"Crow\", is considered one of his most important works.\n\nBirds have similarly appeared in literature from ancient times. Among Aesop's Fables are The Wolf and the Crane and The Fox and the Stork; these fables, which have analogues in eastern traditions such as the Buddhist \"Javasakuna Jataka\",\nuse birds to imply moral conclusions about human behaviour.\n\nMore recently, birds have appeared in books illustrated by some exceptional artists, producing images that were accurate and beautiful, and that made use of the latest available printing techniques. The wood engraver Thomas Bewick's 1797–1804 \"A History of British Birds\" brought affordable illustrations to the public for the first time, and the book formed in effect the first field guide to birds, while John James Audubon's enormous and impressive images of birds in his 1827–1838 \"Birds of America\" are among the most admired by art critics and by collectors: early editions fetch among the highest prices paid for any printed books. The ornithologist John Gould's bird illustrations, in books such as \"A Century of Birds hitherto unfigured from the Himalaya Mountains\" (1830–1833) with 80 plates, and his 7-volume \"The Birds of Australia\" (1840–1848) with 600 plates, related directly to his research, were both beautiful and scientifically useful.\n\nBirds are popular characters in children's books, which are often handsomely illustrated. Beatrix Potter's 1908 \"The Tale of Jemima Puddle-duck\" created an enduringly popular bird heroine. Other authors followed with many bird characters in books for children of different ages.\n\nIn books for adults, birds may have symbolic or psychological significance. For instance, Paul Gallico's 1940 \"\" was a parable about the regenerative power of friendship in wartime; the goose symbolises both the hero, Rhayader, a wounded artist, and the world wounded by war. T. H. White's 1951 \"The Goshawk\" describes the author's \"monstrous and often cruel battles\" to train his bird of prey, while Helen Macdonald's 2014 \"H is for Hawk\", which references White's book, tells how her obsession with the same species as a falconer helped her through the loss of her father.\n\nIn music, birdsong has influenced composers and musicians in several ways: they can be inspired by birdsong; they can intentionally imitate bird song in a composition, as Vivaldi and Beethoven did, along with many later composers; they can incorporate recordings of birds into their works, first seen in the work of Ottorino Respighi; or as Beatrice Harrison did in 1924 with a nightingale, and David Rothenberg did in 2000 with a laughingthrush, they can duet with birds.\n\nAt least two groups of scientists, namely Luis Felipe Baptista and Robin A. Keister in 2005, and Adam Tierney and colleagues in 2011, have argued that birdsong has a similar structure to music. Baptista and Keister argue that the way birds use variations of rhythm, relationships of musical pitch, and combinations of notes is somewhat musical, perhaps because some birds exploit variation in song to avoid monotony, or mimic other species. Tierney argues that the similar motor constraints on human and avian song drive these to have similar song structures, including \"arch-shaped and descending melodic contours in musical phrases\", long notes at the ends of phrases, and typically small differences in pitch between adjacent notes.\n\nBirds feature as central characters in dance traditions around the world.\nFor example, Goldie's bird of paradise is celebrated in Papua New Guinea in a \"beautiful\" dance by two men who dress in grass skirts with the bird's plumes on the rump; they carry cassowary feathers in their hands and on their armbands, and imitate the bird's calls while they dance. It is performed on important occasions, carrying \"special magic\", and the performers are obliged to prepare for a week, avoiding certain foods, and undergoing a prolonged submergence in a cold stream to prepare their minds. The dance is preceded by a \"magic chant\" to the bird of paradise.\nIn Balinese dance, the cendrawasih dance illustrates the bird-of-paradise's mating rituals.\n\nIn Africa, the Ewe people of Ghana, who were said to have been guided from Dahomey to Ghana by a bird, incorporate the flapping of the bird's wings in dances such as \"Agbadza\", \"Atsiagbekor\", and \"Gakpa\".\n\nIn ballet, Tchaikovsky's classical 1895 \"Swan Lake\" and Igor Stravinsky's 1910 \"The Firebird\" have central bird characters.\n\nIn theatre, Aristophanes's 414 BC comedy \"The Birds\" (Greek: \"Ornithes\") is an acclaimed fantasy with effective mimicry of birds. The play's chorus consists of characters playing many identifiable species, including the kingfisher, turtledove, and sparrowhawk; birds feature as messengers and dancers, and several Athenians are compared to specific birds.\n\nIn film, birds can feature as the major driving force in a story, as in Alfred Hitchcock's acclaimed 1963 \"The Birds\". Loosely based on Daphne du Maurier's story of the same name, it tells the tale of sudden attacks on people by violent flocks of birds. A bird plays the role of an outlet for a person's feelings in Ken Loach's much admired 1969 \"Kes\". The film is based on Barry Hines's 1968 novel \"A Kestrel for a Knave\", and tells the story of a young boy who comes of age by training a kestrel that he has taken from the nest.\n\nBirds feature also in the mass media with iconic animated cartoon characters such as Walt Disney's Donald Duck, Warner Bros.'s Tweety Pie, and Walter Lantz's Woody Woodpecker. The species involved are not always discernible, though Woody has been claimed to be based on the acorn or pileated woodpeckers.\n\nThough human activities have allowed the expansion of a few species, such as the barn swallow and European starling, they have caused population decreases or extinction in many other species. Over a hundred bird species have gone extinct in historical times, including the dodo and the great auk, although the most dramatic human-caused avian extinctions, eradicating an estimated 750–1800 species, occurred during the human colonisation of Melanesian, Polynesian, and Micronesian islands. Many bird populations are declining worldwide, with 1,227 species listed as threatened by BirdLife International and the IUCN in 2009.\n\nThe most commonly cited human threat to birds is habitat loss. Other threats include overhunting; accidental mortality due to collisions with buildings and vehicles; long-line fishing bycatch; pollution (including oil spills and pesticide use), competition; predation; hybridisation from nonnative introduced or invasive species; and climate change. The collection of specimens for taxidermy and eggs from the wild has at times had a serious effect on some species. It is now forbidden in many countries, such as by the British Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981.\n\nEffects are not all negative; for example, wind farms produce renewable energy, helping to mitigate the single greatest threat to birds, climate change. But, especially if wind farms are poorly sited, they may affect bird populations through disturbance, direct or indirect habitat loss, and collisions. Well sited wind farms benefit birds; poorly sited ones can kill many birds in collisions. For example, at the Altamont Pass in California, the golden eagle has been reduced by 80%, and nesting has ceased in the area. Thus, there is a trade-off in the siting of any wind farm.\n\nGovernments and conservation groups work to protect birds, either by passing laws that preserve and restore bird habitat, or by establishing captive populations for reintroductions. Such projects have produced some successes; one study estimated that conservation efforts saved 16 species of bird that would otherwise have gone extinct between 1994 and 2004, including the California condor and Norfolk parakeet. The British Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, founded as the Plumage League in 1889 to protect birds such as the egret from hunting for their plumes, used in fashion, has grown to have over a million members; it has been followed by similar societies in other countries. A more specialised organisation, the Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust founded in 1946, works to conserve waterfowl and their wetland habitats, with projects around the world.\n"}
{"id": "31428210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31428210", "title": "Imitation (art)", "text": "Imitation (art)\n\nImitation is the doctrine of artistic creativity according to which the creative process should be based on the close imitation of the masterpieces of the preceding authors. This concept was first formulated by Dionysius of Halicarnassus in the first century BCE as \"imitatio\", and has since dominated for almost two thousand years the Western history of the arts and classicism; in the 18th century, Romanticism reversed it with the creation of the institution of romantic originality. In the 20th century, the modernist and postmodern movements in turn discarded the romantic idea of creativity, and heightened the practice of imitation, copying, plagiarism, rewriting, appropriation and so on as the central artistic device.\n\n"}
{"id": "3449959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3449959", "title": "Intangible cultural heritage", "text": "Intangible cultural heritage\n\nAn intangible cultural heritage (ICH) is a practice, representation, expression, knowledge, or skill, as well as the instruments, objects, artifacts, and cultural spaces that are considered by UNESCO to be part of a place's cultural heritage. \nIntangible cultural heritage is considered by Member States of UNESCO in relation to the tangible World Heritage focusing on intangible aspects of culture. In 2001, UNESCO made a survey among States and NGOs to try to agree on a definition, and the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage was drafted in 2003 for its protection and promotion.\n\nThe Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage defines \nthe intangible cultural heritage as the practices, representations, expressions, as well as the knowledge and skills (including instruments, objects, artifacts, cultural spaces), that communities, groups and, in some cases, individuals recognise as part of their cultural heritage. It is sometimes called living cultural heritage, and is manifested inter alia in the following domains:\n\n\nCultural heritage in general consists of the products and processes of a culture that are preserved and passed on through the generations. Some of that heritage takes the form of cultural property, formed by tangible artefacts such as buildings or works of art. Many parts of culture, however are intangible, including song, music, dance, drama, skills, cuisine, crafts and festivals. They are forms of culture that can be recorded but cannot be touched or stored in physical form, like in a museum, but only experienced through a vehicle giving expression to it. These cultural vehicles are called \"Human Treasures\" by the UN.\n\nAccording to the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, the intangible cultural heritage (ICH) – or living heritage – is the mainspring of humanity's cultural diversity and its maintenance a guarantee for continuing creativity. It is defined as follows:\n\nIntangible Cultural Heritage means the practices, representations, expressions, knowledge, skills – as well as the instruments, objects, artifacts and cultural spaces associated therewith – that communities, groups and, in some cases, individuals recognize as part of their cultural heritage. This intangible cultural heritage, transmitted from generation to generation, is constantly recreated by communities and groups in response to their environment, their interaction with nature and their history, and provides them with a sense of identity and continuity, thus promoting respect for cultural diversity and human creativity. For the purposes of this Convention, consideration will be given solely to such intangible cultural heritage as is compatible with existing international human rights instruments, as well as with the requirements of mutual respect among communities, groups and individuals, and of sustainable development.\n\nIntangible cultural heritage is slightly different from the discipline of oral history, the recording, preservation and interpretation of historical information (specifically, oral tradition), based on the personal experiences and opinions of the speaker. ICH attempts to preserve cultural heritage 'with' the people or community by protecting the processes that allow traditions and shared knowledge to be passed on while oral history seeks to collect and preserve historical information obtained from individuals and groups.\n\nWith sustainable development gaining momentum as a priority of UNESCO heritage policies, an increasing number of food-related nominations are being submitted for inscription on the lists of the Convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage. The Mediterranean diet, the traditional Mexican cuisine and the Japanese dietary culture of washoku are just some examples of this booming phenomenon.\n\nThe UNESCO lists of intangible cultural heritage also include a variety of dance genres, often associated with singing, music and celebrations, from all over the world. The lists include: celebratory and ritual dances, such as ‘Ma'di bowl lyre music and dance’ from Uganda and ‘Kalbelia folk songs and dances of Rajasthan’ from India and social dances, such as rumba from Cuba. Also, some dances are localised and practised mainly in their country of origin, such as Sankirtana, a performing art that includes drumming and singing, from India. \n\nOther dance forms, however, even if they are officially recognised as heritage from their country of origin, are practised and enjoyed all over the world. For example, flamenco from Spain and tango, from Argentina and Uruguay, have a very international dimension. Dance is a very complex phenomenon, which involves culture, traditions, the use of human bodies, artefacts (such as costumes and props), as well as a specific use of music, space and sometimes light. As a result, a lot of tangible and intangible elements are combined within dance, making it a challenging but extremely interesting type of heritage to safeguard.\n\nDigital heritage is a representation of heritage in the digital realm.\n\nDigital intangible heritage is a sub-category of Intangible Cultural Heritage.\n\nIntangible cultural heritage is passed orally within a community, and while there may be individuals who are known tradition bearers, ICH is often broader than one individual's own skills or knowledge. A 2006 report by the government of Newfoundland and Labrador said, regarding oral culture in their area, \"The processes involved in the continuation of this traditional knowledge constitute one of the most interesting aspects of our living heritage. Each member of the community possesses a piece of the shared knowledge. Crucial knowledge is passed on during community activities, frequently without any conscious attention to the process.\"\n\nPrior to the UNESCO Convention, efforts had already been made by a number of states to safeguard their intangible heritage. Japan, with its 1950 Law for the Protection of Cultural Properties, was the first to introduce legislation to preserve and promote intangible as well as tangible culture: Important Intangible Cultural Properties are designated and \"holders\" recognized of these craft and performance traditions, known informally as Living National Treasures. Other countries, including South Korea (Important Intangible Cultural Properties of Korea), the Philippines, the United States, Thailand, France, Romania, the Czech Republic, and Poland, have since created similar programs.\n\nIn 2003 UNESCO adopted the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. This went into effect on 20 April 2006. The Convention recommends that countries and scholars develop inventories of ICH in their territory, as well as work with the groups who maintain these ICH to ensure their continued existences; it also provides for funds to be voluntarily collected among UNESCO members and then disbursed to support the maintenance of recognized ICH. UNESCO has also created other intangible culture programs, such as a list called Proclamation of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. This list began in 2001 with 19 items and a further 28 were listed in 2003 and another 43 in 2005. In part, the original list was seen as a way to correct the imbalance in the World Heritage List, since it excluded many Southern Hemisphere cultures which did not produce monuments or other physical cultural manifestations. It was superseded in 2008 by the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists.\n\nRecently there has been much debate over protecting intangible cultural heritage through intellectual property rights, as well as the desirability to do so through this legal framework and the risks of commodification derived from this possibility. The issue still remains open in legal scholarship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45426488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45426488", "title": "International National Trusts Organisation", "text": "International National Trusts Organisation\n\nThe International National Trusts Organisation (INTO) is a network of national trusts and similar non-governmental organizations committed to preserving cultural heritage, \"built and natural, tangible and intangible,\" including architecturally or historically significant items, and areas of natural beauty. INTO's mandate includes developing and promoting best practices, supporting existing national trust organizations, establishing new trusts, and advocating for heritage conservation. INTO was formally established in December 2007 at the 12th International National Trusts Conference in New Delhi, India. It operates as a non-profit corporation registered in England and Wales, with headquarters in London.\n\nAccording to INTO chairman Simon Molesworth, an impetus for the formation of INTO came from the requests of some developing nations for help in preserving their cultural heritage in the midst of rapid development.\n\nINTO membership represents over 50 countries, and includes England's National Trust, the first such trust, established in 1895.\n\n"}
{"id": "14352975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14352975", "title": "Jugate", "text": "Jugate\n\nA jugate consists of two portraits side by side to suggest, to the viewer, the closeness of each to the other.\n\nOften this would be a presidential and vice presidential candidates although sometimes a state or local candidate is included with a presidential candidate. Jugates may be seen on medals, pinbacks, buttons, posters or other campaign items. If a third figure appears on the item, it is called a trigate.\n\nHake, Ted: Guide to Presidential Campaign Collectibles, Krause Publications, 1991, p. 175\n"}
{"id": "28344314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28344314", "title": "Korean ethnic nationalism", "text": "Korean ethnic nationalism\n\nKorean ethnic nationalism, or racial nationalism, is a political ideology and a form of ethnic (or racial) identity that is widely prevalent in modern North and South Korea. It is based on the belief that Koreans form a nation, a \"race\", and an ethnic group that shares a unified bloodline and a distinct culture. It is centered on the notion of the \"minjok\" (), a term that had been coined in Imperial Japan (\"minzoku\") in the early Meiji period on the basis of Social Darwinian conceptions. \"Minjok\" has been translated as \"nation\", \"people\", \"ethnic group\", \"race\", and \"race-nation\".\n\nThis conception started to emerge among Korean intellectuals after the Japanese-imposed Protectorate of 1905, when the Japanese were trying to persuade Koreans that both nations were of the same racial stock. The notion of the Korean \"minjok\" was first made popular by essayist and historian Shin Chaeho in his \"New Reading of History\" (1908), a history of Korea from the mythical times of Dangun to the fall of Balhae in 926 CE. Shin portrayed the \"minjok\" as a warlike race that had fought bravely to preserve Korean identity, had later declined, and now needed to be reinvigorated. During the period of Japanese rule (1910–1945), this belief in the uniqueness of the Korean \"minjok\" gave an impetus for resisting Japanese assimilation policies and historical scholarship.\n\nIn contrast to Japan and Germany, where such race-based conceptions of the nation were discredited after the Second World War because they were associated with ultranationalism or Nazism, postwar North and South Korea continued to proclaim their ethnic homogeneity and pure bloodline. In the 1960s, President Park Chung-hee strengthened this \"ideology of racial purity\" to legitimate his authoritarian rule, while in North Korea official propaganda has portrayed Koreans as \"the cleanest race.\" Contemporary Korean historians continue to write about the nation's \"unique racial and cultural heritage.\" This shared conception of a racially defined Korea continues to shape Korean politics and foreign relations, gives Koreans an impetus to national pride, and feeds hopes for the reunification of the two Koreas.\n\nDespite statistics showing that South Korea is becoming an increasingly multi-ethnic society, most of the South Korean population continues to identify itself as \"one people\" (; Hanja: 單一民族, \"danil minjok\") joined by a common \"bloodline\". A renewed emphasis on the purity of Korean \"blood\" has caused tensions, leading to renewed debates on multi-ethnicity and racism both in South Korea and abroad.\n\nIn South Korea, Korean racial nationalism has been described as constituting a civic religion of sorts.\n\nContrary to popular belief in the Koreas, the contemporary Korean ideology of a \"pure Korean race\" began only in the early 20th century when the Japanese annexed Korea and launched a campaign to persuade them that they were of the same pure racial stock as the Japanese themselves.\n\nIn the colonial period, the Imperial Japanese's assimilation policy claimed that Koreans and Japanese were of common origin but the former always subordinate. The pure blood theory was used to justify colonialist policies to replace Korean cultural traditions with Japanese ones in order to supposedly get rid of all distinctions and achieve equality between Koreans and inlanders. The policy included changing Korean names into Japanese, exclusive use of Japanese language, school instruction in the Japanese ethical system, and Shinto worship. Brian Reynolds Myers, a professor at Dongseo University, argues that seeing the failure of the pure assimilationist policy, Japanese imperial ideologues changed their policy into creating a Korean ethnic-patriotism on par with the Japanese one. They encouraged Koreans to take pride in their Koreanness, in their history, heritage, culture and \"dialect\" as a brother nation going back to a common ancestry with the Japanese. Thus, Korean race nationalism can be seen as a deliberate and direct creation of the Japanese empire.\n\nShin Chaeho (1880–1936), the founder of the nationalistic historiography of modern Korea and a Korean independence movement activist, published his influential book of reconstructed history \"Joseon Sanggosa\" (\"The Early History of Joseon\") in 1924–25, proclaiming that Koreans are descendants of Dangun, the legendary ancestor of Korean people, who merged with Buyo of Manchuria to form the Goguryeo people.\n\nBorrowing from the Japanese theory of nation, Shin Chaeho located the martial roots of the Korean in Goguryeo, which he depicted as militarist and expansionist which turned out to inspire pride and confidence in the resistance against the Japanese. In order to establish Korean uniqueness, he also replaced the story of Gija Joseon, whose founder (Gija) was the paternal uncle or brother of the Chinese Shang emperor Zhou, with the Dangun legend and asserted that it was an important way to establish Korea’s uniqueness.\n\nAfter independence in the late 1940s, despite the split between North and South Korea, neither side disputed the ethnic homogeneity of the Korean nation based on a firm conviction that they are purest descendant of a legendary genitor and half-god figure called Dangun who founded Gojoseon in 2333 BCE based on the description of the \"Dongguk Tonggam\" (1485).\n\nIn both Koreas, pure blood theory is a common belief, with even some South Korean presidents subscribing to it. The debates on this topic can be found sporadic in the South, whereas the public opinion in the North is hard to access. In a nationalistic view, to impugn or challenge the theory would have been tantamount to betraying Koreanness in the face of the challenge of an alien ethnic nation.\n\nSome Korean scholars observed that the pure blood theory served as a useful tool for the South Korean government to make its people obedient and easy to govern when the country was embroiled in ideological turmoil. It was especially true in the dictatorial leaderships by former presidents Syngman Rhee and Park Chung-hee when nationalism was incorporated into anti-Communism.\n\nIn South Korea, the notion of \"pure blood\" results in discrimination toward people of both \"foreign-blood\" and \"mixed blood\". Those with this \"mixed blood\" or \"foreign blood\" are sometimes referred to as \"Honhyeol\" () in South Korea.\n\nThe South Korean nationality law is based on jus sanguinis instead of jus solis, which is a territorial principle that takes into account the place of birth when bestowing nationality. In this context, most South Koreans have stronger attachment to South Koreans residing in foreign countries and foreigners of South Korean descent, than to naturalized South Korean citizens and expatriates residing in South Korea. In 2005, the opposition Grand National Party suggested a revision of the current South Korean nationality law to allow South Korean nationality to be bestowed to people who are born in South Korea regardless of the nationalities of their parents but it was discarded due to unfavorable public opinion against such a measure.\nAccording to Jon Huer, a columnist for the \"Korea Times\": \nEmma Campbell from the Australian National University argues that the conceptions of South Korean nationalism is evolving among young people and that a new form is emerging that has globalised cultural characteristics. These characteristics challenge the role of ethnicity in South Korean nationalism. According to Campbell’s study for which she interviewed 150 South Koreans in their twenties, the desire for reunification is declining. However, these who are in favor of a Korean unification state reasons different from ethnic nationalism. The respondents stated that they only wanted unification if it would not disrupt the life in the South or if North Korea achieves economic parity with the South. A small number of respondents further mentioned that they support a \"unification on the condition that it did not take place in their lifetime.\" Another reason stated for the wish for unification was the access to North Korea’s natural resources and cheap labor. This notion of evolving nationalism has been further elaborated by the meaning of \"uri nara\" ( \"my country\" [sic!]) for young South Koreans, which only refers to South Korea for them instead to the whole Korean peninsula. Campbell’s interviews further showed that many young South Koreans have no problems to accepting foreigners as part of \"uri nara\".\n\nB. R. Myers noted in a 2010 \"New York Times\" editorial that there was relatively little public outrage in South Korea over the sinking of the ROKS \"Cheonan\" earlier that year, which he attributed partly to a feeling of sympathy towards North Korea among South Koreans, resulting from a closer identification with the Korean race than with the South Korean state. Myers also stated that race nationalism in South Korea undermines the South Korean citizenry's patriotism towards South Korea by increasing sympathy towards North Korea, thus threatening the country's national security in the face of North Korean aggression, a sentiment shared by \"Korea Times\" columnist Jon Huer. He stated that South Koreans' race nationalism \"is no problem when you have a nation state like Japan or Denmark, but is a problem when you have a state divided.\" Myers has also stated that conversely, North Korea does not suffer from this dilemma as by and large the North Korean people tend to equate the \"Korean race\" and the country of North Korea as being one and the same, unlike in South Korea where the \"Korean race\" and South Korea are largely seen as different entities, the former positively, the latter negatively.\n\nAs part of the deterioration of relations between North Korea and the Soviet Union in the early 1960s, North Korea forced its male citizens who had married Soviet and Eastern European women to divorce, whereupon the women, a few hundred, were expelled from the country. North Korea is alleged to have abducted foreign women in the 1970s to marry to foreign men that immigrated to North Korea in order to keep these men from having children with North Korean women. North Korea is accused of killing babies born to North Korean mothers and Chinese fathers.\n\nIn 2006, American football player Hines Ward, who was born in Seoul to a South Korean mother and a black American father, became the first South Korean-born American to win the NFL Super Bowl's MVP award. This achievement threw him into the media spotlight in South Korea. When he travelled to South Korea for the first time, he raised unprecedented attention to the acceptance of \"mixed-blood\" children. He also donated US$1 million to establish the \"Hines Ward Helping Hands Foundation\", which the media called \"a foundation to help mixed-race children like himself in South Korea, where they have suffered discrimination.\" Hines Ward was granted \"honorary\" South Korean citizenship.\n\nHowever, while some South Koreans are fascinated by the bi-racial sportsman, the majority of ordinary mixed-race people and migrant workers face various forms of discrimination and prejudice. In 2007, the \"Korean pure blood theory\" became an international issue when the U.N. Committee on the International Convention Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination urged better education on the pure blood theory is needed especially for judicial workers such as police officers, lawyers, prosecutors and judges. The suggestion received mixed reception in South Korea in which some raised a concern that foreigners will invade the South Korean culture and challenge national sovereignty. Others say that the embrace of multi-ethnicism will diminish chances of reunifying the Korean Peninsula.\n\nIn 2007 the South Korean government passed the Act on Treatment of Foreigners. Later in 2007, the U.N. Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination praised the Act on Treatment of Foreigners, but also expressed a number of concerns. The Committee was concerned \"about the persistence of widespread societal discrimination against foreigners, including migrant workers and children born from inter-ethnic unions, in all areas of life, including employment, marriage, housing, education and interpersonal relationships.\" It also noted that the terminology such as \"pure blood\" and \"mixed blood\" used in South Korea, including by the government, is widespread, and may reinforce concepts of racist superiority. The committee recommended improvement in the areas of treatment of migrant workers, abuse of and violence against foreign women married to South Korean citizens, and trafficking of foreign women for the purpose of sexual exploitation or domestic servitude. It also noted that contrary to popular domestic perception, South Korea was no longer \"ethnically homogenous\".\n\nAnother legislation aimed at improving the integration of ethnic minorities into South Korean society, the Support for Multicultural Families Act, was passed in 2008 (and revised in 2011).\n\nAccording to 2009 statistics published by South Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare, there were 144,385 couples of international marriage in South Korea as of May 2008. 88.4% of immigrants were female, and 61.9% were from China. Recently it has been argued that South Korean society had already become a multicultural society, although foreigners make up for 3.4% of the South Korean population. As of 2011, ten ministries and agencies of South Korean government are supporting international couples and foreign workers in South Korea toward the cultural plurality.\n\nExisting provisions in South Korean criminal law may be used to punish acts of racial discrimination, but were never used for that purpose until 2009, when the first case of a South Korean citizen verbally insulting a foreigner have been brought to court.\n\nIn 2010, the South Korean government changed the oath of enlistment of Korean soldiers, so that they do not swear allegiance anymore to the Korean race, stating that this shows openness to multiculturalism. Similarly, prior to 2007 the South Korean pledge of allegiance was towards the \"Korean race\" rather than towards the country of South Korea.\n\nIn 2014, North Korea's Korean Central News Agency insulted U.S. President Barack Obama by using racist slurs.\n\nIn 2017, Korean American actress Jamie Chung, who had auditioned for a role in the movie Crazy Rich Asians but was turned down for allegedly not being \"ethnically Chinese\", called the movie's casting of biracial actor Henry Golding as \"bullshit\" in an interview; Golding, who is of English and Malaysian Iban descent, had been cast as the Chinese Singaporean character Nick Young. Chung's remarks were heavily criticized, with many accusing her of being bigoted or racist against Eurasians and promoting racial purity by assuming Golding was not \"Asian enough\" to play an Asian character, despite the actor's cultural ties and upbringing in Malaysia and Singapore. \nDue to heavy backlash from social media, Chung walked away from her comments and apologized to Golding.\n\n"}
{"id": "27270691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27270691", "title": "Legendary progenitor", "text": "Legendary progenitor\n\nA legendary progenitor is a legendary or mythological figure held to be the common ancestor of a dynasty, people, tribe or ethnic group.\n\nMasculinity, femininity and \"ghenos\" or lineage linked to legendary progenitors were fundamental concepts of family identity in the Etruscan and Ancient Greek eras. The Greeks demonstrated the principles of family functionality in the mythological lives of Zeus, Hera, Hestia and Hermes. These included communal dining, and \"charis\" a form of charity that Vittoro Cigoli and Eugena Scabini described as being \"deployed to oppose the core of violence inherent in the family relationship\". Etrusco-Roman culture, developed from the Greek where each \"gens\" (family or house) had their own deified hero, prince or demi-god along with various household deities. The expansion of family trees to include heroic or legendary ancestors was used to boost social status and amass personal finances. Rome's patriarchal families, along with later European dynasties engaged in power struggles, such as that to be elected Pope based on this change in family culture.\n\nPeoples from all over the world have supposed themselves descended from various different eponymic or mythical progenitors. The Italians claimed ancestry from Italus, Lydians from Lydus, Phoenicians associated with Phoenix, Sicilians legendary progenitor was Siculus, Pelasgians revered Pelasgus, Dorians traced lineage to Dorus, Aeolians were linked to Aeolus and Hellenes looked up to Helen. Legendary progenitors also gave their names to places, Memphis was alleged to have been built by Menes and Ninevah by Ninus.\n\nIn later times, place names in Britain were given the names of legendary chieftains or Anglo-Saxon Kings. Isaac Taylor suggests that \"minute fragments of historic truth have been conserved\". He notes however that the \"greatest caution must be exercised as to the conclusions which we allow ourselves to draw. The traditions are generally vague and obscure and the personages whose names are associated with these sites have often only a mythical, or, to speak technically, an \"eponymic\" existence.\"\n\nIn various Greek myths, Melampus is the \"legendary founder and progenitor of a great and long-continued family of prophets\". Along with his brother Bias, they became kings of territory in the Argeian and was acknowledged as a leader in Homer's Odyssey. His grandson is recorded as the prophet Theoklymenos.\n\nNiccolò Machiavelli discussed how in Ancient Rome, both Aeneas, the Trojan and Romulus were both who said to have been the legendary founders. He considered how people's view of history could be influenced by the preference of one progenitor over another, saying \"if whoever examines the building of Rome takes Aeneas for its first progenitor (primo progenitore), it will be of those cities built by foreigners, while if he takes Romulus it will be of those built by men native to the place\". Machiavelli does not take a preference and suggests Rome had \"a free beginning, without depending on anyone\".\n\nMíl Espáine is recorded in Christian writings to be the legendary progenitor of the Irish Gaels or Goidels. He was suggested to have led the Milesians to be the final inhabitants of Ireland.\n\nThe five ancestors of Mieszko I as well as Chościsko, the father of Piast the Wheelwright have all been suggested as legendary progenitors of the Piast dynasty in Poland.\n\nIn the Middle East, Abraham (originally Abram) is regarded as the patriarch of the Arab people and Jewish people in the Bible and the Quran. In the Book of Genesis, he is blessed with this honour by God, saying \"Your name will be Abraham, for I have made you a father of many nations\".\n\nTan'Gun is the legendary forebear of the Korean people.\n\nIn Indian Hinduism, the Rishis regarded Manu is as the legendary ancestor of the Indo-Aryan peoples in the Rig Veda. This tradition was carried forward in the Brahamanas, Puranas, Matsya Purana, Vishnu Purana and Aitareya Brahama. Brahma is also mentioned as the progenitor of Manu.\n\nNyatri Tsenpo was a legendary progenitor of the so-called \"Yarlung dynasty\" of kings in Tibet. Tsenpo, or \"gNya'-khri btsan-po\" has been suggested to have descended from an Indian dynasty and hence linked with Buddha. In Tibet, the term is also connected with a \"spiritual progenitor\". Tibetan Buddhists believe their ancestors to be famous teachers or translators. They consider that single spiritual progenitors can incarnate in various different people simultaneously in different geographical locations. These progenitors are given names based on their qualities and physical locations. Examples include \"Prince Lion the teacher of Rgya\" and \"Karma, Light of Knowledge and Love the Mkhyen-brtse at Dpal-spuns\".\n\nIn Chinese mythology, the goddess Nüwa is a legendary progenitor of all human beings. She also creates a magic stone. Her husband Fu Xi is suggested to be the progenitor of divination and the patron saint of numbers.\n\nIn Bali, a legendary forefather or \"stamvader\" was called Wau Rauh. He was a mythical Brahmin high priest of Majapahit who established a five caste system. He had five wives and five children and founded Brahamanic clans such as Kamenuh, Nauba, Gelgel, Kayusunia and Andapan.\n\nPrince Vijaya has been discussed as a legendary primogenitor of the Sinhala people of Sri Lanka. He is recorded in the Sri Lankan Pali chronicles as the first king and described going on a mythical quest. Monarchs continued to reign in the Kingdom of Kandy until being deposed by the British under the terms of the Kandyan Convention.\n\nMythical progenitors are honoured in songs, dance and instrumental performance by the Mbyá people in Argentina. Their songs invoke the names of various deities which are believed to reincarnate as souls in new children. Their multitude of legendary progenitors are considered to \"dictate actions carried out by their children on earth\".\n\nPatrick Wolfe has discussed the work of Scottish ethnologist John Ferguson McLennan in his study The Worship of Animals and Plants (1869, 1870) regarding the role of legendary progenitors in Totemism, practiced by Native Americans. He suggested that \"patrilineal totem stocks were endowed with fictional ancestral figures who were well suited to provide a basis from which subsequent and more sublime theologies might develop\".\n\nDavid Conrad discusses how ancient Mali's ruling elite adopted composite characters of Islamic forebears into legendary progenitors. Such a composite image is discussed as a character called Fosana, whose legends are told as \"a collage of loosely connected incidents from the Prophet's life and times.\" Fragments of the stories of Fosana have been connected with events in the lives of Bilal ibn Rabah al-Habashi and Suraqa bin Malik.\n\nIn Arnhem Land in Australia, the Gunwinggu people consider Wurugag and Waramurungundi to be their original ancestors and have been depicted in tribal art.\n\nRobert Alun Jones discussed Baldwin Spencer's study of the Alcheringa ancestors of the Arunta tribe in Australia as having both a spirit \"ulthana\" and a syzygy spirit \"arumburinga\". The syzygy spirit reincarnating repetitively as a reflection of the spirit of a single \"alcheringa\" ancestor.\n\nIn creation myths, the first man and woman extend the concept to all of mankind.\n"}
{"id": "30779156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30779156", "title": "List of female action heroes and villains", "text": "List of female action heroes and villains\n\nThe following is a list of female action heroes villains who appear in action films, television shows, comic books, and video games and who are \"thrust into a series of challenges requiring physical feats, extended fights, extensive stunts and frenetic chases.\" Elizabeth Abele suggests that \"the key agency of female action protagonists is their ability to draw on the full range of masculine and feminine qualities in ever-evolving combinations.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16615403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16615403", "title": "List of women warriors in folklore", "text": "List of women warriors in folklore\n\nThis is a list of women who engaged in war, found throughout mythology and folklore, studied in fields such as literature, sociology, psychology, anthropology, film studies, cultural studies, and women's studies. A \"mythological\" figure does not always mean a \"fictional\" one, but rather, someone of whom stories have been told that have entered the cultural heritage of a people. Some women warriors are documented in the written record and as such form part of history (e.g. the Ancient Briton queen Boudica, who led the Iceni into battle against the Romans). However, to be considered a warrior, the woman in question must have belonged to some sort of military, be it recognized, like an organized army, or unrecognized, like revolutionaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNonhelema was a Shawnee chieftess and sister of Cornstalk. She was known by white settlers as the Grenadier or Grenadier Squaw because of her height. She promoted an alliance with the Americans on the frontier in Ohio.\n\nWoman Chief (c. 1806 – 1858) was a Crow chief and war leader in the mid-19th century. Born to the Gros Ventre people, she was adopted into the Crow. She gained renown in battles and raids, and assumed leadership of her lodge when her father died, becoming a leading chief. She married four wives and later participated in peace negotiations after the 1851 Treaty of Fort Laramie.\n\nFallen Leaf (often called Woman Chief by the Americans): She was born to the Gros Ventre nation and taken captive by the Crow when she was 12. After she had counted coup four times in the prescribed Crow tradition, she was considered a warrior and chief and sat in the council of chiefs.\n\nRunning Eagle: she became a Blackfoot (Piegan) warrior after her husband was killed by the Crow.\n\nColestah: In the 1858 battle of Spokane Plains in Washington, Yakama leader Kamiakin's wife Colestah was known as a medicine woman, psychic, and warrior. Armed with a stone war club, Colestah fought at her husband's side. When Kamiakin was wounded, she rescued him, and then used her healing skills to cure him.\n\nBuffalo Calf Road Woman: In the 1876 battle of the Rosebud in Montana, Buffalo Calf Road (aka Calf Trail Woman), the sister of Comes in Sight, rode into the middle of the warriors and saved the life of her brother. Buffalo Calf Road had ridden into battle that day next to her husband Black Coyote. This was considered to be one of the greatest acts of valor in the battle.\n\nMoving Robe Woman: One of the best-known battles in the annals of Indian-American warfare is the 1876 Battle of the Greasy Grass in Montana where Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer was defeated. One of those who led the counterattack against the cavalry was the woman Tashenamani (Moving Robe).\n\nLozen (c. 1840-June 17, 1889) was a female warrior and prophet of the Chihenne Chiricahua Apache. She spent most of her adult life fighting the Apache Wars alongside her brother Victorio and the legendary Geronimo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSomdet Phra Sri Suriyothai () was a royal consort during the 16th century Ayutthaya period of Siam (now Thailand). She is famous for having given up her life in the defense of her husband, King Maha Chakkraphat, in a battle during the Burmese-Siamese War of 1548. For the movie, see \"The Legend of Suriyothai\".\n\nThao Thep Kasattri () and Thao Sri Sunthon () were styles awarded to Than Phuying Chan (), wife of the then recently deceased governor, and her sister, Khun Muk (), who defended Phuket Province in the late 18th century. According to popular belief, they repelled a five-week invasion by Burmaese in 1785, by dressing up as male soldiers and rallying Siamese troops. Chan and Muk were later honored by King Rama I with the Thai honorific \"Thao\", as Thao Thep Kasattri and Thao Sri Sunthon, respectively. The \"Heroine's Monument\" honouring them is situated on the main highway (402) between the Phuket International Airport and Phuket town.\n\n\nThree historical women:\n\nTwo legendary women:\n\nThis Amazon is famous in their traditions: her house or dairy of stone is yet extant; some of the inhabitants dwell in it all summer, though it be some hundred years old; the whole is built of stone, without any wood, lime, earth, or mortar to cement it, and is built in form of a circle pyramid-wise towards the top, having a vent in it, the fire being always in the centre of the floor; the stones are long and thin, which supplies the defect of wood; the body of this house contains not above nine persons sitting; there are three beds or low vaults that go off the side of the wall, a pillar betwixt each bed, which contains five men apiece; at the entry to one of these low vaults is a stone standing upon one end fix’d; upon this they say she ordinarily laid her helmet; there are two stones on the other side, upon which she is reported to have laid her sword: she is said to have been much addicted to hunting, and that in her time all the space betwixt this isle and that of Harries, was one continued tract of dry land.\n\nSimilar stories of a female warrior who hunted the now submerged land between the Outer Hebrides and St Kilda are reported from Harris.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \"From sunrise to the sundown no paragon had she.\n\n\n\n\nKhawlah bint al-Azwar was the daughter of one of the chiefs of Bani Assad tribe, and her family embraced Islam in its first days. The recorded history of that era mentions repeatedly the feats of Khawla in battles that took place in Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Palestine. In one instance, she fought in disguise as a man to rescue her brother Derar after the Romans captured him. The Romans eventually lost the battle and fled. When her identity was discovered, the commander of the Moslem army was very impressed with her courage, and he allowed her to lead the attack against the fleeing Romans; they were defeated and the prisoners were all released. In another battle in Ajnadin, Khawla's spear broke, and her mare was killed, and she found herself a prisoner. But she was astonished to find that the Romans attacked the women camp and captured several of them. Their leader gave the prisoners to his commanders, and ordered Khawla to be moved into his tent. She was furious, and decided that to die is more honorable than living in disgrace. She stood among the other women, and called them to fight for their freedom and honor or die. They took the tents' poles and pegs and attacked the Roman guards, keeping a formation of a tight circle, as she told them. Khawla led the attack, killed the first guard with her pole, with the other women following her. According to Al Wakidi, they managed to kill 30 Roman soldiers, five of whom were killed by Khawla herself, including the soldier who wanted to rape her. She was a brunette, tall, slim and of great beauty, and she was also a distinguished poet.\n\nNusaybah bint Ka’ab, also known as Umm Ammarah (Ammarah's mother), a Hebrew woman by origin from the Banu Najjar tribe, was an early convert to Islam. Nusaybah was attending the Battle of Uhud like other women, and her intention was to bring water to the soldiers, and attend the wounded while her husband and son fought on the side of the Moslems. But after the Moslem archers disobeyed their orders and began deserting their high ground believing victory was at hand, the tide of the battle changed, and it appeared that defeat was imminent. When this occurred, Nusaybah entered the battle, carrying a sword and shield. She shielded Muhammad from the arrows of the enemy, and received several wounds while fighting. She was highly praised by Muhammad on her courage and heroism. During the battle her son was wounded and she cut off the leg of the aggressor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51202733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51202733", "title": "Lurish clothing", "text": "Lurish clothing\n\nThe clothing culture of Lurs is a very interesting aspect of this ethnic group which has been developed along with their long history of coexistence with surrounding natural elements across the Iranian plateau, and geographical, cultural and religious effects. This clothing system is a symbol of Lurish people although it varies due to geographical and seasonal conditions and between Lurish subgroups. The colors of Lurish costumes differ by the Lurs location. In a general classification Lurish clothes are in three main subgroups: Feyli (common between Feyli Lurs including Laki, Minjai, Kalhori and Maleki tribes), Bakhtiari (Common between Bakhtiari Charlang and Haftlang clans) and Southern Lurish (common between Southern Lurs). \n\nShaal (شال): A long white cloth (width: 60–90 cm, length: 6–9 meters) made by chalvar nature which is twisted all round the waist.\n\nSetra (سِتره): A special cassock that its size is below the knees and usually is used for more official ceremonies. This clothes is one of the oldest types of clothing in Iran. \n\nFelt hats (کُلأ نِمِدی): A round felt made that has no edges and sometimes is surrounded by Golvani.\n\nGiva(گیوه): A local handmade shoes with sturdy leather or plastic soles and the vamp is woven by spun yarn.\n\nChugha (چوغا): A masculine wrapper that is used prominently by Bakhtiari Lurs and Feyli Lurs. Chugha is made by sheep wool and usually is woven by Bakhtiari nomads.\n\nJuma (جومه) or Kraas(کراس): A free, tall and without a collar dress which is a common clothing of Lurish women all across Luristan. \n\nKolonja (کُلُنجه): is a lacing overcoat which in many cases, the surface is embroidered and decorated by coins.\n\nSaava (ساوه): A special silk fabric that Lur women tie around the head.\n\nGolvani (گُلوَنی): A colorful and patterned type of Saava that mostly is used for celebration and joy. In recent years, Golvani is mentioned as an ethnic symbol of Lurs and every year is celebrated on a certain day (May 16) during spring season.\n\n"}
{"id": "30269033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30269033", "title": "Luxury goods of China", "text": "Luxury goods of China\n\nThe market for luxury goods in China composes a significant proportion of all luxury goods sales worldwide. In 2012, China surpassed Japan as the world's largest luxury market. \n\nAccording to a blue paper on commercial development in China, released in 2010 by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), China's luxury goods market had increased to US$9.4 billion by the end of 2009. This accounted for 27.5% of the world's luxury goods market, an increase from 25% in 2008. On current growth rates, the luxury goods market in China is expected to grow to US$14.6 billion by 2014.\n\nChinese luxury goods consumers are younger than their European counterparts, belonging to the 18-50 age group, compared to Europe's consumers who are generally in the over 40 age group. For this reason, China's luxury goods market is expected to grow faster than that of Europe's. Many of the young luxury goods buyers are self-employed or professionals. According to the consulting firm McKinsey & Company, 80% of Chinese luxury goods buyers are under 45, compared with 30% of luxury goods buyers in the United States and 19% in Japan. Retail sales in China account for only 7% of global retail sales of luxury consumer goods; however, Chinese buyers account for 25% of global retail sales of luxury consumer goods. Many shops in international travel destinations have specialized staff devoted to Chinese customers. \n\nAccording to 2007 Global Luxury Survey by \"Time\" magazine, most luxury goods buyers in China buy luxury products as a status symbol. The top five luxury watch brands in the country are Rolex, Omega, Cartier, Vacheron Constantin, and Breitling.\n\nIn a confidential report titled \"China Luxury Market study 2010\" in November 2010, the management consulting firm Bain & Company noted the top three luxury brands in China are Louis Vuitton, Chanel and Gucci. According to the report, watches and bags led the growth of the luxury market in 2010. The report documented the top three luxury brands in the country for the following products:\n\nFollowing a ban instituted in October, 2012 on government agencies purchasing luxury goods, often used as \"gifts\", sales of luxury goods in China remained strong, but slowed, even falling slightly for some luxury retailers in the 4th quarter of 2012.\n\nAs of February 2014 2/3rds of the luxury goods purchased by the wealthy in the People's Republic of China were purchased by tourists in Europe and the United States where, particularly in Europe, high-end retailers have hired staffed fluent in Mandarin.\n\nMajor global luxury brands like Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Audi, and Lexus have operations in China. Audi, which has dominated China's luxury car market for more than two decades, is the market leader in the luxury car segment, with China being Audi's second largest market in the world. However Audi's market share in this category is gradually falling as BMW and Mercedes-Benz are adopting new strategies to boost sales. According to data from Global Insight, Audi's market share in China decreased from 66% in 2004 to 42% in 2009, while the market share of BMW and Mercedes-Benz increased from 7% to 23%, and 9% to 16%, respectively. BMW is enlarging its current plant in China and building a second one.\n\nAudi is still the dominant choice of car in the government fleet market. BMW sales are growing but is perceived to be for the newly rich. Mercedes is seen to be for old folks. Brands such as BMW and Audi are designing customized cars for the Chinese luxury car market. BMW designed a model with a longer wheelbase especially for government officials in order to give the back seat passenger more space. \n\nAccording to Stephan Winkelmann, CEO of Lamborghini, \"China's super car market is growing faster than our expectations, while the Western markets are declining. The strong demand will soon make China our second biggest market after the United States. If the high taxes on luxury cars are removed, China could very well become the biggest market.\"\n\nAs of 2013 the trend continued as the number of luxury cars and SUVs shown expanded at the Shanghai auto show and plans were announced by both foreign and domestic auto manufacturers to introduce new models in China and increase production of larger cars.\n\nSwiss shipments of high-end watches, favored as gifts meant to curry favor and caricatured as a symbol of corruption, after peaking in 2012, dropped off in 2013.\n\nIn April, 2013 sales of gold and jewelry were 72% higher than in April, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1299072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299072", "title": "Meta-reference", "text": "Meta-reference\n\nMeta-reference is a special type of self-reference that can occur in all media or medial artefacts, for instance literature, film, painting, TV series, comic strips, or video games. It includes all references to, or comments on, a specific medium, medial artefact, or the media in general. These references and comments originate from a logically higher level (a 'meta-level') within any given artefact, and draw attention to -- or invite reflection about -- media-related issues (e.g. the production, performance, or reception) of said artefact, specific other artefacts (as in parody), or to parts, or the entirety, of the medial system. It is, therefore, the recipient's awareness of an artefact's medial quality that distinguishes meta-reference from more general forms of self-reference. Thus, meta-reference triggers media-awareness within the recipient, who, in turn \"becomes conscious of both the medial (or 'fictional' in the sense of artificial and, sometimes in addition, 'invented') status of the work\" as well as \"the fact that media-related phenomena are at issue, rather than (hetero-)references to the world outside the media.\" Although certain devices, such as mise en abyme, may be conducive to meta-reference, they are not necessarily metareferential themselves. Similarly, innately metareferential devices, such as metalepsis, are to be seen as special cases of meta-reference. The terms meta-reference and metalepsis can, therefore, not be used synonymously.\n\nWhile meta-reference as a concept is not a new phenomenon and can be observed in very early works of art and media not tied to specific purposes (e.g. Homer's invocation of the muses at the beginning of the \"Odyssey\" in order to deliver the epic better), the term itself is relatively new. Earlier discussions of metareferential issues often opt for more specific terminology tied to the respective discipline. Notable discussions of meta-reference include, but are not limited to, William H. Gass's and Robert Scholes's exploration of metafiction, Victor Stoichita's examination of early modern meta-painting, and Lionel Abel's investigation of metatheatre. In the context of drama, meta-reference has also become colloquially known as the breaking of the fourth wall. The first study to underscore the problem resulting from the lack of cohesive terminology, as well as the necessity to acknowledge metareference as transmedial and trans-generic phenomenon, was published in 2007 by Hauthal et al. Publications by Nöth and Bishara as well as Wolf followed suit, raised similar concerns, included case studies from various media, coined and helped establish the more uniform umbrella term meta-reference as define above.\n\nWhile every medium has the potential for meta-reference, some media can transport meta-reference more easily than others. Media that can easily realise its meta-referential potential includes, for instance, literature, painting, and film. Although music can be meta-referential even outside the confines of lyrics, meta-reference in music is much harder to create or detect. Music, therefore, would be a less typical medium for the occurrence of meta-reference. Nöth argues in this context that although non-verbal media can be the home of meta-reference, the contained meta-reference can only be implicit because non-verbal media can only show similarites, but never point directly (or explicitly) to meta-referential elements. Others, however, argue that meta-reference is explicit as long as it is clear.\n\nJohn Fowles begins chapter 13 of his novel \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\" with the wordsThis \"story\" I am \"telling\" is all \"imagination\". These \"characters\" I create never existed outside my own mind. If I have pretended until now to know my \"characters\"' mind and innermost thoughts, it is because I am \"writing\" in [...] a \"convention\" universally accepted at the time of my \"story\": that the \"novelist\" stands next to God. [emphases added]This is an example of explicit meta-reference because the text draws attention to the fact that the novel the recipient is reading is merely a fiction created by the author. It also foregrounds the convention that readers of realist fiction accept the presence of an all-knowing narrator, and breaks it by allowing the narrator to take centre stage which invites meta-reflections by the recipient.\n\n\"The Truman Show\" is a movie that contains a high degree of meta-reference. Truman, the protagonist, is unaware that he is part of a reality TV show, but the audience knows about the artificiality of both Truman's life and, by extension, the movie that is being watched. This is underscored by putting emphasis on the production process of the fictional reality TV show, which makes the audience aware of the same features being used in the movie at the time of watching. Further examples of meta-reference in the movie include spotlights falling from the sky seemingly out of the blue, or a raincloud which is curiously only raining on Truman following him around on Seahaven Beach. Both instances point to the artificiality of Truman's life as well as the film itself.\n\nAn example of meta-reference in painting is \"Manet's Balcony\" by René Magritte. It comments on another painting, \"The Balcony\" by Édouard Manet, by mimicking both the setting of the balcony as well as the poses of the depicted people, but places them in coffins. Thus, the recipient's attention is drawn to the fact that not only are the people in the painting long dead and only still 'alive' in the representation, but arguably also that the artist (Manet) and the impressionist painting style are just as dead as the portrayed individuals. Furthermore, it is foregrounded that the impressionist painting style is just a style that may be copied, which further emphasises the fact that both works are only paintings created in a specific way. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "886895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=886895", "title": "Narrativity", "text": "Narrativity\n\nNarrativity is the extent to which a text tells a story, which is a storyteller's account of an event or a sequence of events leading to a transition from an initial state to a later state or outcome. There are four theoretical foundations of narrativity, represented by the notions of \nNarrative content and discourse are the linguistic antecedents of narrativity. Narrative content reflects the linear sequence of events as characters live through them—that is, the backbone and structure describing who did what, where, when, and why. Narrative discourse represents how the story is told—that is, storytellers' use of literary devices to expand on the narrative content, such as emotional change over the course of the story line and sequencing of events to create drama. Narrative transportation is the engrossing, transformational experience of being swept away by a story. Narrative persuasion is the effect of narrative transportation, which manifests itself in story receivers' positive attitudes toward the story, story-consistent attitudes toward the experience described therein, and story-consistent intentions. The higher the quality of narrative content and discourse in a text, the greater its narrativity and its real-world implications, such as narrative transportation and persuasion, as van Laer, Escalas, Ludwig, and van den Hende show.\n\nThe extent to which story receivers experience narrative transportation and are \"lost\" in the narrative world depends on the level of narrativity of a text. Narratologists distinguish two components of narrativity: content and discourse. The difference between narrative content and narrative discourse is the difference between what is conveyed and how it is conveyed. The features of narrative content align with the structural components of a story (i.e., characters and events). Literary devices, which grant storytellers the power to frame the narrative, are associated with narrative discourse. Variations in these narrative elements affect transportation into the narrative and subsequent persuasion, as the theory of narrativity proposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "11985663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11985663", "title": "Native American identity in the United States", "text": "Native American identity in the United States\n\nNative American identity in the United States is an evolving topic based on the struggle to define \"Native American\" or \"(American) Indian\" both for people who consider themselves Native American and for people who do not. Some people seek an identity that will provide for a stable definition for legal, social, and personal purposes. There are a number of different factors which have been used to define \"Indianness,\" and the source and potential use of the definition play a role in what definition is used. Facets which characterize \"Indianness\" include culture, society, genes/biology, law, and self-identity. An important question is whether the definition should be dynamic and changeable across time and situation, or whether it is possible to define \"Indianness\" in a static way. The dynamic definitions may be based in how Indians adapt and adjust to dominant society, which may be called an \"oppositional process\" by which the boundaries between Indians and the dominant groups are maintained. Another reason for dynamic definitions is the process of \"ethnogenesis\", which is the process by which the ethnic identity of the group is developed and renewed as social organizations and cultures evolve. The question of identity, especially aboriginal identity, is common in many societies worldwide.\n\nThe future of their identity is extremely important to Native Americans. Activist Russell Means spoke frequently about the crumbling Indian way of life, the loss of traditions, languages, and sacred places. He was concerned that there may soon be no more Native Americans, only \"Native American Americans, like Polish Americans and Italian Americans.\" As the number of Indians has grown (ten times as many today as in 1890), the number who carry on tribal traditions shrinks (one fifth as many as in 1890), as has been common among many ethnic groups over time. Means said, \"We might speak our language, we might look like Indians and sound like Indians, but we won’t be Indians.\"\n\nThere are various ways in which Indian identity has been defined. Some definitions seek universal applicability, while others only seek definitions for particular purposes, such as for tribal membership or for the purposes of legal jurisdiction. The individual seeks to have a personal identity that matches social and legal definitions, although perhaps any definition will fail to categorize correctly the identity of everyone.\n\nAmerican Indians were perhaps clearly identifiable at the turn of the 20th century, but today the concept is contested. Malcolm Margolin, co-editor of \"News From Native California\" muses, \"I don’t know what an Indian is... [but] Some people are clearly Indian, and some are clearly not.\" Cherokee Chief (from 1985–1995) Wilma Mankiller echoes: \"An Indian is an Indian regardless of the degree of Indian blood or which little government card they do or do not possess.\"\n\nFurther, it is difficult to know what might be meant by any Native American \"racial\" identity. Race is a disputed term, but is often said to be a social (or political) rather than biological construct. The issue of Native American racial identity was discussed by Steve Russell (2002, p68), \"American Indians have always had the theoretical option of removing themselves from a tribal community and becoming legally white. American law has made it easy for Indians to disappear because that disappearance has always been necessary to the 'Manifest Destiny' that the United States span the continent that was, after all, occupied.\" Russell contrasts this with the reminder that Native Americans are \"members of communities before members of a race.\"\n\nTraditional definitions of \"Indianness\" are also important. There is a sense of \"peoplehood\" which links Indianness to sacred traditions, places, and shared history as indigenous people. This definition transcends academic and legal terminology. Language is also seen as an important part of identity, and learning Native languages, especially for youth in a community, is an important part in tribal survival.\n\nSome Indian artists find traditional definitions especially important. Crow poet Henry Real Bird offers his own definition, \"An Indian is one who offers tobacco to the ground, feeds the water, and prays to the four winds in his own language.\" Pulitzer Prize-winning Kiowa author N. Scott Momaday gives a definition that is less spiritual but still based in the traditions and experience of a person and their family, \"An Indian is someone who thinks of themselves as an Indian. But that's not so easy to do and one has to earn the entitlement somehow. You have to have a certain experience of the world in order to formulate this idea. I consider myself an Indian; I've had the experience of an Indian. I know how my father saw the world, and his father before him.\"\n\nSome social scientists relate the uncertainty of Native American identity to the theory of the constructed nature of identity. Many social scientists discuss the construction of identity. Benedict Anderson's \"imagined communities\" are an example. However, some see construction of identity as being part of how a group remembers its past, tells its stories, and interprets its myths. Thus cultural identity is made within the discourses of history and culture. Identity thus may not be a fact based in the essence of a person, but a positioning, based in politics and social situations.\n\nA common source of definition for an individual's being Indian is based on their blood (ancestry) quantum (often one-fourth) or documented Indian heritage. Almost two-thirds of all Indian federally recognized Indian tribes in the United States require a certain blood quantum for membership. Indian heritage is a requirement for membership in most American Indian Tribes. The Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 used three criteria: tribal membership, ancestral descent, and blood quantum (one half). This was very influential in using blood quantum to restrict the definition of Indian. The use of blood quantum is seen by some as problematic as Indians marry out to other groups at a higher rate than any other United States ethnic or racial category. This could ultimately lead to their absorption into the rest of multiracial American society.\n\nRelated to the remembrance and practice of traditions is the residence on tribal lands and Indian reservations. Peroff (2002) emphasizes the role that proximity to other Native Americans (and ultimately proximity to tribal lands) plays in one's identity as a Native American.\n\nEuropean conceptions of \"Indianness\" are notable both for how they influence how American Indians see themselves and for how they have persisted as stereotypes which may negatively affect treatment of Indians. The noble savage stereotype is famous, but American colonists held other stereotypes as well. For example, some colonists imagined Indians as living in a state similar to their own ancestors, for example the Picts, Gauls, and Britons before \"Julius Caesar with his Roman legions (or some other) had ... laid the ground to make us tame and civil.\"\n\nIn the 19th and 20th century, particularly until John Collier's tenure as Commissioner of Indian Affairs began in 1933, various policies of the United States federal and state governments amounted to an attack on Indian cultural identity and attempt to force assimilation. These policies included but were not limited to the banning of traditional religious ceremonies; forcing traditional hunter-gatherer people to begin farming, often on land that was unsuitable and produced few or no crops; forced cutting of hair; coercing \"conversion\" to Christianity by withholding rations; coercing Indian parents to send their children to boarding schools where the use of Native American languages was not permitted; freedom of speech restrictions; and restricted allowances of travel between reservations. In the Southwest sections of the U.S. under Spanish control until 1810, where the majority (80%) of inhabitants were Indigenous, Spanish government officials had similar policies.\n\nSome authors have pointed to a connection between social identity of Native Americans and their political status as members of a tribe.rev There are 561 federally recognized tribal governments in the United States, which are recognized as having the right to establish their own legal requirements for membership. In recent times, legislation related to Indians uses the \"political\" definition of identifying as Indians those who are members of federally recognized tribes. Most often given is the two-part definition: an \"Indian\" is someone who is a member of an Indian tribe and an \"Indian tribe\" is any tribe, band, nation, or organized Indian community recognized by the United States.\n\nThe government and many tribes prefer this definition because it allows the tribes to determine the meaning of \"Indianness\" in their own membership criteria. However, some still criticize this saying that the federal government's historic role in setting certain conditions on the nature of membership criteria means that this definition does not transcend federal government influence. Thus in some sense, one has greater claim to a Native American identity if one belongs to a federally recognized tribe, recognition that many who claim Indian identity do not have. Holly Reckord, an anthropologist who heads the BIA Branch of Acknowledgment and Recognition, discusses the most common outcome for those who seek membership: \"We check and find that they haven't a trace of Indian ancestry, yet they are still totally convinced that they are Indians. Even if you have a trace of Indian blood, why do you want to select that for your identity, and not your Irish or Italian? It's not clear why, but at this point in time, a lot of people want to be Indian.\".\n\nThe Arts and Crafts Act of 1990 attempts to take into account the limits of definitions based in federally recognized tribal membership. In the act, having the status of a state-recognized Indian tribe is discussed, as well as having tribal recognition as an \"Indian artisan\" independent of tribal membership. In certain circumstances, this allows people who identify as Indian to legally label their products as \"Indian made\", even when they are not members of a federally recognized tribe. In legislative hearings, one Indian artist, whose mother is not Indian but whose father is Seneca and who was raised on a Seneca reservation, said, \"I do not question the rights of the tribes to set whatever criteria they want for enrollment eligibility; but in my view, that is the extent of their rights, to say who is an enrolled Seneca or Mohawk or Navajo or Cheyenne or any other tribe. Since there are mixed bloods with enrollment numbers and some of those with very small percentages of genetic Indian ancestry, I don't feel they have the right to say to those of us without enrollment numbers that we are not of Indian heritage, only that we are not enrolled... To say that I am not [Indian] and to prosecute me for telling people of my Indian heritage is to deny me some of my civil liberties...and constitutes racial discrimination.\"\n\nSome critics believe that using federal laws to define \"Indian\" allows continued government control over Indians, even as the government seeks to establish a sense of deference to tribal sovereignty. Critics say Indianness becomes a rigid legal term defined by the BIA, rather than an expression of tradition, history, and culture. For instance, some groups which claim descendants from tribes that predate European contact have not been able to achieve federal recognition. On the other hand, Indian tribes have participated in setting policy with BIA as to how tribes should be recognized. According to Rennard Strickland, an Indian Law scholar, the federal government uses the process of recognizing groups to \"divide and conquer Indians: \"the question of who is 'more' or 'most' Indian may draw people away from common concerns.\"\n\nIn some cases, one's opinion about one's self is sufficient to define one as Indian. One can often choose to identify as Indian without outside verification when filling out a census form, a college application, or writing a letter to the editor of a newspaper. A \"self-identified Indian\" is a person who may not satisfy the legal requirements which define a Native American according to the United States government or a single tribe, but who understands and expresses her own identity as Native American. However, many people who do not satisfy tribal requirements identify themselves as Native American - whether due to biology, culture, or some other reason. The United States census allows citizens to check any ethnicity without requirements of validation. Thus, the census allows individuals to self-identify as Indian, merely by checking the racial category, \"Native American/Alaska Native\". In 1990, about 60 percent of the more than 1.8 million persons identifying themselves in the census as American Indian were actually enrolled in a federally recognized tribe. Using self identification allows both uniformity and includes many different ideas of \"Indianness\". It also avoids marginalizing the nearly half a million who receive no benefits because \n\nIdentity is in some way a personal issue; based on the way one feels about oneself and one's experiences. Horse (2001) describes five influences on self-identity as Indian:\n\nUniversity of Kansas sociologist Joane Nagel traces the tripling in the number of Americans reporting American Indian as their race in the U.S. Census from 1960 to 1990 (from 523,591 to 1,878,285) to federal Indian policy, American ethnic politics, and American Indian political activism. Much of the population \"growth\" was due to \"ethnic switching\", where people who previously marked one group, later mark another. This is made possible by our increasing stress on ethnicity as a social construct. In addition, since 2000 self-identification in US censuses has allowed individuals to check multiple ethnic categories, which is a factor in the increased American Indian population since the 1990 census. Yet, self-identification is problematic on many levels. It is sometimes said, in fun, that the largest tribe in the United States may be the \"Wantabes\".\n\nGarroutte identifies some practical problems with self-identification as a policy, quoting the struggles of Indian service providers who deal with many people who claim ancestors, some steps removed, who were Indian. She quotes a social worker, \"Hell, if all that was real, there are more Cherokees in the world than there are Chinese.\"\n\nMany individuals seek broader definitions of Indian for personal reasons. Some people whose careers involve the fact that they emphasize Native American heritage and self-identify as Native American face difficulties if their appearance, behavior, or tribal membership status does not conform to legal and social definitions. Some have a longing for recognition. Cynthia Hunt, who self-identifies as a member of the state-recognized Lumbee tribe, says: \"I feel as if I'm not a real Indian until I've got that BIA stamp of approval ... You're told all your life that you're Indian, but sometimes you want to be that kind of Indian that everybody else accepts as Indian.\"\n\nThe importance that one \"look Indian\" can be greater than one's biological or legal status. Native American Literature professor Becca Gercken-Hawkins writes about the trouble of recognition for those who do not look Indian; \"I self-identify as Cherokee and Irish American, and even though I do not look especially Indian with my dark curly hair and light skin, I easily meet my tribe's blood quantum standards. My family has been working for years to get the documentation that will allow us to be enrolled members of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians. Because of my appearance and my lack of enrollment status, I expect questions regarding my identity, but even so, I was surprised when a fellow graduate student advised me—in all seriousness—to straighten my hair and work on a tan before any interviews. Thinking she was joking, I asked if I should put a feather in my hair, and she replied with a straight face that a feather might be a bit much, but I should at least wear traditional Native jewelry.\"\n\nCherokee/Choctaw author Louis Owens discusses his feelings about his status of not being a real Indian because he's not enrolled. \"Because growing up in different times, I naively thought that Indian was something we were, not something we did or had or were required to prove on demand. Listening to my mother's stories about Oklahoma, about brutally hard lives and dreams that cut across the fabric of every experience, I thought I was Indian.\"\n\nFlorida State anthropologist J. Anthony Paredes considers the question of Indianness that may be asked about pre-ceramic peoples (what modern archaeologists call the \"Early\" and \"Middle Archaic\" period), pre-maize burial mound cultures, etc. Paredes asks, \"Would any <nowiki>[</nowiki>Mississippian high priest<nowiki>]</nowiki> have been any less awed than ourselves to come upon a so-called Paleo-Indian hunter hurling a spear at a woolly mastodon?\" His question reflects the point that indigenous cultures are themselves the products of millennia of history and change.\n\nThe question of \"Indianness\" was different in colonial times. Integration into Indian tribes was not difficult, as Indians typically accepted persons based not on ethnic or racial characteristics, but on learnable and acquirable designators such as \"language, culturally appropriate behavior, social affiliation, and loyalty.\" Non-Indian captives were often adopted into society, including, famously, Mary Jemison. As a side note, the \"gauntlet\" was a ceremony that was often misunderstood as a form of torture, or punishment but within Indian society was seen as a ritual way for the captives to leave their European society and become a tribal member.\nSince the mid-19th century, controversy and competition have worked both within and outside tribes, as societies evolved. In the early 1860s, novelist John Rollin Ridge led a group of delegates to Washington D.C. in an attempt to gain federal recognition for a \"Southern Cherokee Nation\" which was a faction that was opposed to the leadership of rival faction leader and Cherokee Chief John Ross.\n\nIn 1911, Arthur C. Parker, Carlos Montezuma, and others founded the Society of American Indians as the first national association founded and run primarily by Native Americans. The group campaigned for full citizenship for Indians, and other reforms, goals similar to other groups and fraternal clubs, which led to blurred distinctions between the different groups and their members. With different groups and people of different ethnicities involved in parallel and often competing groups, accusations that one was not a real Indian was a painful accusation for those involved. In 1918, Arapaho Cleaver Warden testified in hearings related to Indian religious ceremonies, \"We only ask a fair and impartial trial by reasonable white people, not half-breeds who do not know a bit of their ancestors or kindred. A true Indian is one who helps for a race and not that secretary of the Society of American Indians.\"\n\nIn the 1920s, a famous court case was set to investigate the ethnic identity of a woman known as \"Princess Chinquilla\" and her associate Red Fox James (aka Skiuhushu). Chinquilla was a New York woman who claimed to have been separated from her Cheyenne parents at birth. She and James created a fraternal club which was to counter existing groups \"founded by white people to help the red race\" in that it was founded by Indians. The club's opening received much praise for supporting this purpose, and was seen as authentic; it involved a Council Fire, the peace pipe, and speeches by Robert Ely, White Horse Eagle, and American Indian Defense Association President Haven Emerson. In the 1920s, fraternal clubs were common in New York, and titles such as \"princess\" and \"chief\" were bestowed by the club to Natives and non-Natives. This allowed non-Natives to \"try on\" Indian identities.\n\nJust as the struggle for recognition is not new, Indian entrepreneurship based on that recognition is not new. An example is a stipulation of the Creek Treaty of 1805 that gave Creeks the exclusive right to operate certain ferries and \"houses of entertainment\" along a federal road from Ocmulgee, Georgia to Mobile, Alabama, as the road went over parts of Creek Nation land purchased as an easement.\n\nThe issue of Indianness had somewhat expanded meaning in the 1960s with Indian nationalist movements such as the American Indian Movement. The American Indian Movement unified nationalist identity was in contrast to the \"brotherhood of tribes\" nationalism of groups like the National Indian Youth Council and the National Congress of American Indians. This unified Indian identity has been cited to the teachings of 19th century Shawnee leader Tecumseh to unify all Indians against \"white oppression.\" The movements of the 1960s changed dramatically how Indians see their identity, both as separate from whites, as a member of a tribe, and as a member of a unified category encompassing all Indians.\n\nDifferent tribes have unique cultures, histories, and situations that have made particular the question of identity in each tribe. Tribal membership may be based on descent, blood quantum, and/or reservation habitation.\n\nHistorically, race was not a factor in the acceptance of individuals into Cherokee society, since historically, the Cherokee people viewed their self-identity as a political rather than racial distinction. Going far back into antiquity based upon existing social and historical evidence as well as oral traditions among the Cherokee themselves, the Cherokee society was best described as an Indian Republic. Race and blood quantum are not factors in Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma tribal citizenship eligibility. To be considered a citizen in the Cherokee Nation, an individual needs a direct Indian ancestor listed on the Dawes Rolls. The tribe currently has members who also have African, Latino, Asian, white and other ancestry, and an estimated 75% of tribal members are less than one-quarter Indian by blood. Numerous Cherokee heritage groups operate in the Southeastern U.S..\n\nTheda Perdue (2000) recounts a story from \"before the American Revolution\" where a black slave named Molly is accepted as a Cherokee as a \"replacement\" for a woman who was beaten to death by her white husband. According to Cherokee tradition, vengeance for the woman's death was required for her soul to find peace, and the husband was able to prevent his own execution by fleeing to the town of Chota (where according to Cherokee Law he was safe) and purchasing Molly as an exchange. When the wives family accepted Molly, later known as \"Chickaw,\" she became a part of their clan (the Deer Clan), and thus Cherokee.\n\nInheritance was largely matrilineal, and kinship and clan membership was of primary importance until around 1810, when the seven Cherokee clans began the abolition of blood vengeance by giving the sacred duty to the new Cherokee National government. Clans formally relinquished judicial responsibilities by the 1820s when the Cherokee Supreme Court was established. When in 1825, the National Council extended citizenship to biracial children of Cherokee men, the matrilineal definition of clans was broken and clan membership no longer defined Cherokee citizenship. These ideas were largely incorporated into the 1827 Cherokee constitution. The constitution did, state that \"No person who is of negro or mulatlo [sic]parentage, either by the father or mother side, shall be eligible to hold any office of profit, honor or trust under this Government,\" with an exception for, \"negroes and descendants of white and Indian men by negro women who may have been set free.\" Although by this time, some Cherokee considered clans to be anachronistic, this feeling may have been more widely held among the elite than the general population. Thus even in the initial constitution, the Cherokee reserved the right to define who was and was not Cherokee as a political rather than racial distinction. Novelist John Rollin Ridge led a group of delegates to Washington D.C. as early as the 1860s in an attempt to gain federal recognition for a \"Southern Cherokee Nation\" which was a faction that was opposed to the leadership of rival faction leader and Cherokee Chief John Ross.\n\nMost of the 158,633 Navajos enumerated in the 1980 census and the 219,198 Navajos enumerated in the 1990 census were enrolled in the Navajo Nation, which is the nation with the largest number of enrolled citizens. It is notable as there is only a small number of people who identify as Navajo who are not registered.\n\nWhen the Lumbee of North Carolina petitioned for recognition in 1974, many federally recognized tribes adamantly opposed them. These tribes made no secret of their fear that passage of the legislation would dilute services to historically recognized tribes. The Lumbee were at one point known by the state as the Cherokee tribe of Robeson County and applied for federal benefits under that name in the early 20th century. The Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians has been at the forefront of the opposition of the Lumbee. It is sometimes noted that if granted full federal recognition, the designation would bring tens of millions of dollars in federal benefits, and also the chance to open a casino along Interstate 95 (which would compete with a nearby Eastern Cherokee Nation casino).\n\n"}
{"id": "2991026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2991026", "title": "Piblokto", "text": "Piblokto\n\nPiblokto, also known as pibloktoq and Arctic hysteria, is a condition most commonly appearing in Inughuit (Greenlandic Inuit) societies living within the Arctic Circle. Piblokto is a culture-specific hysterical reaction in Inuit, especially women, who may perform irrational or dangerous acts, followed by amnesia for the event. Piblokto may be linked to repression of the personality of Inuit women. The condition appears most commonly in winter. It is considered to be a form of a culture-bound syndrome, although more recent studies (see \"Skepticism\" section) question whether it exists at all. Piblokto is also part of the glossary of cultural bound syndromes found in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV).\n\nPiblokto was first documented in 1892 and reports by European explorers describe the phenomenon as common to all Arctic regions. Explorers were the first to notice piblokto. Among these, Admiral Robert Peary provided a detailed look into the disorder during an expedition to Greenland. The acts Peary and his men witnessed among the Inuit women provided entertainment, and, having sent the women's male counterparts out on missions, Peary's men reaped the sexual benefits of being the only males present. Piblokto is not limited to the indigenous people; reports of stranded sailors during the 1800s exhibiting the same symptoms have been found. The disorder is said to have existed before Western contact and still occurs today. However, as discussed below, many scholars now hold that culture bound disorders may often be an artifact of colonial encounters, and contemporary discussions of piblokto in medical anthropology and cross-cultural psychiatry consider it to be an example of the suspect nature of culture bound syndromes.\n\nPiblokto is most often found but not confined to the Inughuit culture in the polar regions of northern Greenland. Similar symptoms have been reported in European sailors stranded in Arctic regions in the 1800s. Among the Inughuit, the attacks are not considered out of the ordinary. No native theory of the disorder is currently reported. This condition is most often seen in Inughuit women. Piblokto is most common during long Arctic nights.\n\nPiblokto is an abrupt dissociative episode with four phases: social withdrawal, excitement, convulsions and stupor, and recovery.\n\nAlthough there is no known cause for piblokto, Western scientists have attributed the disorder to the lack of sun, the extreme cold, and the desolate state of most villages in the region. A reason for this disorder present in this culture may be due to the isolation of their cultural group.\n\nThis culture-bound syndrome is possibly linked to vitamin A toxicity (hypervitaminosis A). The native Inughuit diet or Eskimo nutrition provides rich sources of vitamin A through the ingestion of livers, kidneys, and fat of arctic fish and mammals and is possibly the cause or a causative factor. This causative factor is through the disturbance that has been reported for males, females, adults, children, and dogs. The ingestion of organ meats, particularly the livers of some Arctic mammals, such as the polar bear and bearded seal, where the vitamin is stored in toxic quantities, can be fatal to most people.\n\nInughuit tradition states that it is caused by evil spirits possessing the living. Shamanism and animism are dominant themes in Inughuit traditional beliefs with the angakkuq (healer) acting as a mediator with the supernatural forces. Angakkuit use trance states to communicate with spirits and carry out faith healing. There is a view among the Inughuit that individuals entering trance states should be treated with respect given the possibility of a new \"revelation\" emerging as a result. Treatment in piblokto cases usually involves allowing the episode to run its course without interference. While piblokto can often be confused with other conditions, (including epilepsy) in which failure to intervene can lead to the victim coming to harm, most cases tend to be more typical.\n\nAlthough piblokto has a place in the historical record and official medical canons, a number of Arctic researchers and Arctic residents doubt its existence. The phenomena, they suggest, may be more rooted in the experience and behavior of the early European explorers than the Inuit themselves.\n\nIn 1988 Parks Canada historian Lyle Dick began a substantial challenge to the concept that piblokto exists at all. Dick examined the original records of the European Arctic explorers, and ethnographic and linguistic reports on Inughuit societies, and discovered that not only is the majority of academic speculation into piblokto based on reports of only eight cases, but the word \"piblokto\" / \"pibloktoq\" does not exist within Inuktun (the Inughuit language); possibly, Dick concluded, this may have been the result of errors in phonetic transcription. In a 1995 paper published in the journal \"Arctic Anthropology\", and in his 2001 book \"Muskox land: Ellesmere Island in the Age of Contact\", Dick suggests that piblokto is a \"phantom phenomenon\", arising more from the Inuhuit reaction to European explorers in their midst.\n\nSimilarly, Hughes and Simons have described piblokto as a \"catch-all rubric under which explorers lumped various Inuhuit anxiety reactions, expressions of resistance to patriarchy or sexual coercion, and shamanistic practice\". Simply put, rather than understanding piblokto as a strange cultural phenomenon, some critical scholars now understand it to be an expression of trauma of colonial violence, including rape. For example, transcultural psychiatry scholars Lawrence Kirmayer and Harry Minas write: \n\n″Most comprehensive psychiatric texts mention pibloktoq\nas a culture-bound syndrome characterized by sudden wild and erratic\nbehaviour. Recently, the historian Lyle Dick collected all the published accounts\nof pibloktoq, of which there are only about 25. It seems that psychiatric\ncase description transformed a situation of sexual exploitation of Inuit\nwomen by explorers into a discrete disorder worthy of a new diagnostic\nlabel. With hindsight, we can see how insensitivity to the impact of exploration\non other peoples distorted the picture when vital information on\nsocial context was not included. The legacy of these colonialist blinkers is\nstill with us. . .″ \n\n"}
{"id": "1528526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1528526", "title": "Purple prose", "text": "Purple prose\n\nIn literary criticism, purple prose is prose text that is so extravagant, ornate, or flowery as to break the flow and draw excessive attention to itself. Purple prose is characterized by the excessive use of adjectives, adverbs, and metaphors. When it is limited to certain passages, they may be termed purple patches or purple passages, standing out from the rest of the work.\n\nPurple prose is criticized for desaturating the meaning in an author's text by overusing melodramatic and fanciful descriptions. As there is no precise rule or absolute definition of what constitutes purple prose, deciding if a text, passage, or complete work has fallen victim is a somewhat subjective decision. According to Paul West, \"It takes a certain amount of sass to speak up for prose that's rich, succulent and full of novelty. Purple is immoral, undemocratic and insincere; at best artsy, at worst the exterminating angel of depravity.\"\n\nThe term \"purple prose\" is derived from a reference by the Roman poet Horace (Quintus Horatius Flaccus, 65–8 BC) who wrote in his \"Ars Poetica\" (lines 14–21):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6070611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070611", "title": "Radical chic", "text": "Radical chic\n\n\"Radical chic\" is a term coined by journalist Tom Wolfe in his 1970 essay \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\" to describe the adoption and promotion of radical political causes by celebrities, socialites, and high society. The concept has been described as \"an exercise in double-tracking one's public image: on the one hand, defining oneself through committed allegiance to a radical cause, but on the other, vitally, demonstrating this allegiance because it is the fashionable, \"au courant\" way to be seen in moneyed, name-conscious Society.\" Unlike dedicated activists, revolutionaries, or dissenters, those who engage in \"radical chic\" remain frivolous political agitators. They are ideologically invested in their cause of choice only so far as it advances their social standing.\n\n\"Terrorist chic\" is a modern expression with similar connotations. This derivative, however, de-emphasizes the class satire of Wolfe's original term, instead accentuating concerns over the semiotics of radicalism (such as the aestheticization of violence).\n\nIn languages such as American English, French and Italian the term has become widely used to indicate people identifying themselves as socialists or radical leftists while conducting upper-class lifestyles.\n\nThe phrase \"radical chic\" originated in a 1970 \"New York\" article by Tom Wolfe, titled \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\", which was later reprinted in his books \"Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers\" and \"The Purple Decades\". In the essay, Wolfe used the term to satirize composer Leonard Bernstein and his friends for their absurdity in hosting a fundraising party for the Black Panthers—an organization whose members, activities, and goals were clearly incongruous with those of Bernstein's elite circle. Wolfe's concept of radical chic was intended to lampoon individuals (particularly social elites like the jet set) who endorsed leftist radicalism merely to affect worldliness, assuage white guilt, or garner prestige, rather than to affirm genuine political convictions.\n\nThe concept of \"fashionable\" espousal of radical causes by members of wealthy society in this case had been argued against by Bernstein's wife, Felicia Montealegre, prior to the publication of \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\", a fact Wolfe details in it. The essay appeared in the June 8, 1970 issue of \"New York\", 20 weeks after the actual fund raiser at the Bernstein residence was held on January 14. The first report of the event appeared the following day in a piece by \"The New York Times\" style reporter Charlotte Curtis, who was in attendance. Curtis wrote in part: \"Leonard Bernstein and a Black Panther leader argued the merits of the Black Panther party's philosophy before nearly 90 guests last night in the Bernsteins' elegant Park Avenue duplex.\" According to Wolfe, the release of the story worldwide was followed by strong criticism of the event: \"The English, particularly, milked the story for all it was worth and seemed to derive one of the great cackles of the year from it.\"\n\nThe negative reaction prompted publication of an op-ed in the \"Times\" on January 16 entitled \"False Note on Black Panthers\" that was severely critical of the Black Panther Party and Bernstein:\n\nFelicia Montealegre wrote and personally delivered a response to this op-ed to the \"Times\" offices. In her response she wrote:\n\nTerrorist chic (also known as \"terror chic\" or \"militant chic\") is a more recent and specific variation of the term. It refers to the appropriation of symbols, objects, and aesthetics related to radical militants, usually in the context of pop culture or fashion. When such imagery is deployed subversively, the process exemplifies aestheticization of propaganda. Regardless, because terrorist chic derives its iconography from groups and individuals often associated with violent conflict or terrorism, the term carries a greater pejorative tone than \"radical chic.\"\n\nInstances of terrorist chic have variously been interpreted as morally irresponsible, earnestly counter-cultural, ironically hip, or benignly apolitical. According to Henry K. Miller of the \"New Statesman\", the most well-known example is the ubiquitous appearance of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara in popular culture. Other cases that have been labeled terrorist chic include: the Prada-Meinhof fashion line (a pun on Prada and the Baader-Meinhof Gang) and the fashion of combining keffiyehs and military-style clothing such as camo prints and heavy boots, outside the Arab World.\n\nIn his 1996 \"Bangor Daily News\" article \"Libertarian chic hits country,\" Roland Nethaway compared libertarians to \"John Wayne on steroids,\" writing they were \"anti-government before anti-government was cool\". In a 2013 Reuters article, Nicholas Wapshott used the term to describe those who use radical statements to add a \"dangerous edge to their otherwise humdrum personas.\"\n\nLos Angeles Times journalist suggested that Alberto Korda's iconic March 1960 photograph of revolutionary Ernesto Che Guevara is possibly \"the most-reproduced photograph in the world,\" a ubiquitous countercultural symbol of rebellion and global insignia within popular culture.\n\nShortly after the October 17, 1997 burial with military honors in Santa Clara, Cuba of Guevara's disinterred and identified remains, found in the Bolivian jungle by forensic anthropologists, \"New York Times\" columnist Richard Bernstein argued that the third-world revolution that Che embodied was no longer even a \"drawing-room, radical-chic hope.\" Concurrent with his re-burial, three major Guevara biographies were published in 1997. Noting the sustained interest in Che, Bernstein suggested that \"the end of the cold war and the failure of the third-world revolution\" allowed for the \"scrutiny of Guevara, [as] a symbol of both the idealism and the moral blindness of the decade of protest\" to take place free in a context free \"of ideological partisanship and rancor.\"\n\nOn 1 April 2008 the documentary \"Chevolution\", on the mass dissemination of Korda's iconic photograph taken at a memorial service in Havana in March 1960 of revolutionary Ernesto Che Guevara entitled \"Guerillero Heroico\" by Trisha Ziff and Luis Lopez starring Antonio Banderas and Gael García Bernal, was launched. This documentary is a critical work about propaganda, \"communism and capitalism, idealism and opportunism, art and commerce\" from the 1960s to the first decade of the 21st century.\n\nOn 21 May 2008 Steven Soderbergh's long-anticipated and highly acclaimed film premiered at Cannes starring Benicio Del Toro. The film followed most other pop-culture trends by showing a glamorized and romanticized portrayal of Che as a 'heroic liberator'. Del Toro won the Best Actor Award, and the film received mostly positive reviews. \"Che\" was released on December 12, 2008 in New York City and Los Angeles to qualify for the year's Academy Awards.\n\nTed Balaker, editor-in-chief of Reason TV, an American libertarian website, wrote and produced \"Killer Chic\" in 2008, a libertarian, anti-Communist documentary, in which he deconstructed the use of images of Che Guevara and Mao Zedong in popular culture. In his blog entry on 11 December 2008, Reason journalist Nick Gillespie used the term \"killer chic\" in his review of Steven Soderbergh's film.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30041335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30041335", "title": "Repurposing", "text": "Repurposing\n\nRepurposing is the process by which an object with one use value is transformed or redeployed as an object with an alternative use value.\n\nRepurposing is as old as human civilization, with many contemporary scholars investigating that way that different societies re-appropriate the artifacts of older cultures in new and creative ways. More recently, repurposing has been celebrated by 21st century hobbyists and arts-and-crafts organizations such as Instructables and other Maker culture communities as a means of creatively responding to the ecological and economic crises of the 21st century. Recent scholarship has attempted to relate these activities to American left- and right-libertarianism.\n\nRepurposing is the use of a tool being re-channeled into being another tool, usually for a purpose unintended by the original tool-maker. Typically, repurposing is done using items usually considered to be junk, garbage, or obsolete. A good example of this would be the Earthship style of house, that uses tires as insulating walls and bottles as glass walls. Reuse is not limited to repeated uses for the same purpose. Examples of repurposing include using tires as boat fenders and steel drums or plastic drums as feeding troughs and/or composting bins. Incinerator and power plant exhaust stack fly-ash is used extensively as an additive to concrete, providing increased strength. This type of reuse can sometimes make use of items which are no longer usable for their original purposes, for example using worn-out clothes as rags.\n\nNot all repurposing is necessarily environmentally friendly, take for instance the idea of repurposing older work trucks for businesses in their infancy, in which their poor fuel economy can negate long term benefits since greater spending of money for fuel, and more fumes output to the sky can prove to be environmentally unfriendly, in which repurposing vehicles for electric car conversion can be the recommended alternative to that, though its cost can be negligible upfront.\n\n\n\n\n\nDrug repositioning (also known as \"drug repurposing\" or \"therapeutic switching\") is the application of known drugs and compounds to treat new diseases. Examples include Pfizer's Viagra for erectile dysfunction and Celgene's thalidomide for cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "8625214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8625214", "title": "Sanpitsu", "text": "Sanpitsu\n\nThe term \"Sanpitsu\" (三筆) or \"three brushes\" is used in Japanese to refer to a group of three famous Heian period calligraphers:\n\n\nLater groups of calligraphers were named in imitation of the original Sanpitsu.\n\nNamed for the Kan'ei period in which they flourished:\n\n\nZen Chinese calligraphers who worked in Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "639900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639900", "title": "Silent Generation", "text": "Silent Generation\n\nThe Silent Generation is the demographic cohort following the cohort known in the United States as the G.I. Generation. There are no precise dates for when The Silent Generation starts or ends. Demographers and researchers typically use mid-to-late 1920s as starting birth years and early-to-mid 1940s as ending birth years for this cohort.\n\nIt is unclear where the term originated, although it is widely accepted that the term \"Silent Generation\" comes from the focus on careers over activism. As young adults during the McCarthy Era, many members of the Silent Generation felt it was dangerous to speak out. \"Time\" magazine first used the term \"Silent Generation\" in a November 5, 1951 article titled \"The Younger Generation\", although the term appears to precede the publication. The name was originally applied to people in the United States and Canada but has been applied as well to those in Western Europe, Australia and South America. It includes most of those who fought during the Korean War. In the United States, the generation was comparatively small because the financial insecurity of the 1930s and the war in the early 1940s caused people to have fewer children. They are noted as forming the leadership of the civil rights movement as well as comprising the “silent majority”.\n\nThey have also been named the \"Lucky Few\" in the 2008 book \"The Lucky Few: Between the Greatest Generation and the Baby Boom\", by Elwood D. Carlson PhD, the Charles B. Nam Professor in Sociology of Population at Florida State University. Carlson notes that this was the first generation in American history to be smaller than the generation that preceded them. He calls the people of this generation \"The Lucky Few\", because even though they were born during the Great Depression and World War II, they moved into adulthood during the relatively prosperous 1950s and early 1960s. For men who served in the Korean War, their military service was not marked by high casualties as much as the previous generation. The Lucky Few also had higher employment rates than the generations before and after them, as well as better health and earlier retirement. African Americans in this generation also did better than earlier generations in education and employment.\n\nAustralia's McCrindle Research uses the name \"Builders\" to describe the Australian members of this generation, born between 1925 and 1945, and coming of age to become the generation \"who literally and metaphorically built [the] nation after the austerity years post-Depression and World War II\".\n\nPew Research uses 1928 to 1945 as birth years for this cohort.\n\nResolution Foundation, in a report titled \"Cross Countries: International comparisons of international trends\", uses 1926 to 1945 as birth dates for the Silent Generation.\n\nDemographers William Strauss and Neil Howe use 1925–42 as birth years.\n\nThe generation includes many political and civil rights leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr., Pope Francis, Pope Benedict XVI, The 14th Dalai Lama, Malcolm X, Michael Dukakis, John McCain, Walter Mondale, Dick Cheney, Bernie Sanders, Robert F. Kennedy, Ted Kennedy, Fidel Castro, Che Guevara, Raúl Alfonsín, Giuliano Amato, Kofi Annan, Silvio Berlusconi, Mikhail Gorbachev, B.J. Habibie, Malcolm Fraser, Bob Hawke, John Howard, Saddam Hussein, Ion Iliescu, Helmut Kohl, John Major, Paul Martin, Slobodan Milošević, Mahathir Mohamad, Madeleine Albright, John Lewis, Hosea Williams and Warren Christopher.\n\nIt includes such writers and artists as Elvis Presley, George Carlin, Ursula Andress, Jim Morrison, Julie Andrews, Anne Bancroft, Brigitte Bardot, John Cleese, Judi Dench, Harrison Ford, Audrey Hepburn, Janet Leigh, Sophia Loren, Shirley MacLaine, Marilyn Monroe, Andy Warhol, Sylvia Plath, Joan Baez, Jane Fonda, Angela Lansbury, Mary Tyler Moore, Debbie Reynolds, Elizabeth Taylor, Shirley Temple, Gene Wilder, Natalie Wood, Alan Arkin, Warren Beatty, Richard Burton, James Caan, James Coburn, Sean Connery, James Dean, Robert Duvall, Clint Eastwood, Morgan Freeman, Andy Williams, James Garner, Gene Hackman, Richard Harris, Dustin Hoffman, Anthony Hopkins, Dennis Hopper, Rock Hudson, James Earl Jones, Frank Langella, Jack Lemmon, Roger Moore, Steve McQueen, Paul Newman, Jack Nicholson, Peter O'Toole, Sam Cooke, Al Pacino, Christopher Plummer, Robert Redford, Oliver Reed, Burt Reynolds, Little Richard, Chuck Berry, Ray Charles, Bo Diddley, B.B. King, Leonard Nimoy, William Shatner, George Takei, Adam West, Johnny Cash, Glen Campbell, Stephen Sondheim, James Brown, Sammy Davis Jr., Bobby Darin, Neil Diamond, Bob Dylan, the Everly Brothers, Marvin Gaye, Glenn Gould, Don Rickles, Joan Rivers, the Beat Generation, Noam Chomsky and Richard Rorty.\n\nGreat athletes include Hank Aaron, Muhammad Ali, Roger Bannister, Ron Barassi, Richie Benaud, Yogi Berra, Jim Brown, Rubin Carter, Wilt Chamberlain, Bobby Charlton, Roy Emerson, Dawn Fraser, Reg Gasnier, Althea Gibson, Gordie Howe, Sandy Koufax, Jack Kyle, John Landy, Rod Laver, Sonny Liston, Mickey Mantle, Roger Maris, Bob Mathias, Willie Mays, Allan Moffat, Bobby Moore, Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, Floyd Patterson, Pelé, Pete Rose, Ken Rosewall, Garfield Sobers, Jackie Stewart, Ted Whitten, and Lev Yashin.\n\nIf the Silent Generation is deemed to include persons born between 1925 and 1942, the generation produced no U.S. presidents. The U.S. essentially \"jumped from George Bush Sr., the World War II veteran, to Baby Boomer Bill Clinton\". However, it did produce Vice Presidents Joe Biden (born 1942), Dick Cheney (born 1941) and Walter Mondale (born 1928) and First Ladies Barbara Bush (born 1925), Rosalynn Carter (born 1927), and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis (born 1929). Presidents Jimmy Carter and George H.W. Bush were born in what is sometimes considered to be the last year of the G.I. Generation (1924).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11033682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11033682", "title": "Societal marketing", "text": "Societal marketing\n\nThe societal marketing is a marketing concept that holds that a company should make marketing decisions not only by considering consumers' wants, the company's requirements, but also society's long-term interests.\n\nThe societal marketing concept holds that the organization's task is to determine the needs, wants, and interests of a target market and to deliver the desired satisfactions more effectively and efficiently than competitors in a way that preserves or enhances the well being of both the individual consumer and society in general. Therefore, marketers must endeavor to satisfy the needs and wants of their target markets in ways that preserve and enhance the well-being of consumers and society as a whole. It is closely linked with the principles of corporate social responsibility and of sustainable development.\n\nSocietal marketing can be defined as a \"marketing with a social dimension or marketing that includes non-economic criteria\". Societal marketing \"concerns for society's long term interests\". It is about \"the direct benefits for the organization and secondary benefit for the community\". Societal marketing distinguishes between the consumer's immediate satisfaction and longer term consumer and social benefits. Accordingly, Andreas Kaplan defines societal management as \"management that takes into account society's overall welfare in addition to mere profitability considerations.\" Its a 3 dimensional concept of marketing ;Social welfare,Individual welfare,Company profits.\n\nVarious attempts to define the objectives of societal marketing have been noted, such as:\n\nThe concept of societal marketing emerged in the early 1970s, promoting a more socially responsible, moral and ethical model of marketing in an effort to counter some of the more serious criticisms of marketing that had arisen out of the consumerist movement around that time. \n\nPhilip Kotler is generally credited with introducing the societal marketing concept to the literature in a 1972 article \"What Consumerism Means for Marketers\" in the \"Harvard Business Review\" of 1972. Certainly Kotler believed that he had coined the term, \"societal marketing\" and was the first to codify it within the marketing literature. Some marketing historians, notably Wilkie and Moore, have argued that a societal perspective was not new, and that evidence for it could be found in marketing theory and in marketing texts, since the discipline's inception in the early 1900s. Kotler introduced both the concept of social marketing (extending marketing technologies into non-business areas) and societal marketing, arguing that the marketing concept and its technologies must be tempered and ultimately revised by adopting a more explicit social orientation. The novelty of Kotler's concept was the idea of \"long-run consumer welfare\", emphasizing that the short-term desires might not support the consumer's long term interests or be good for the society as a whole.\n\nThe societal marketing concept adopts the position that marketers have a greater social responsibility than simply satisfying customers and providing them with superior value. Instead, marketing activities should strive to benefit society's overall well-being. Marketing organisations that have embraced the societal marketing concept typically identify key stakeholder groups including: employees, customers, local communities, the wider public and government and consider the impact of their activities on all stakeholders. They ensure that marketing activities do not damage the environment and are not hazardous to broader society. Societal marketing developed into sustainable marketing. Societal marketing requires businesses to include social, ethical and ecological considerations in product and market planning. \n\nKotler identified four categories of products, classified in terms of long term benefits and immediate satisfaction: \n\n\nKotler's concept of societal marketing suggested that for the well-being of society, deficient products should be eliminated from the market, pleasing and salutary products should go through a product modification process to acquire desirable status, by incorporating missing short term benefits into salutary products and long term benefits into pleasing products, and the companies' ultimate goal should be to develop desirable products. Rather than focusing on selling a products, which can be good or bad for the consumers, companies should focus on consumer and society's well-being.\n\nMost companies recognize that socially responsible activities improve their image among customers, stockholders, the financial community, and other relevant publics. Ethical and socially responsible practices are simply good business, resulting not only in favorable image, but ultimately in increased sales.\n\n\nSocietal marketing should not be confused with social marketing. Societal marketing is a philosophy or mindset that informs marketing decisions whereas social marketing is a distinct branch within the marketing discipline. Societal marketing is concerned with the consideration of the social and ethical aspects of marketing planning. Social marketing is concerned with facilitating social change. A key difference is that the greater 'social good' is the \"principal\" consideration in social marketing while social benefits are one of a number of considerations in societal marketing. \n\nOn the other hand, social marketing is a sub-branch of marketing that began in 1971, with the publication of an article by Kotler and Zaltman, emphasising a planned approach to achieving social change. It is primarily concerned with encouraging pro-social behaviours (e.g. recycling, sun-safety, safe driving practices) and discouraging anti-social behaviours (e.g. littering, drink-driving). It is defined as an \"adaptation of commercial marketing technologies to programs designed to influence the voluntary behavior of target audiences to improve their personal welfare and that of the society of which they are a part\". \n\nSocial marketing uses more traditional commercial techniques and strategies, focusing on persuasion, to achieve goals for the greater social good. Its campaigns can either encourage merit goods, as for example fund raising for not-for-profit organizations or dissuade the use of demerit goods promoting society's well being, as non-smoking campaigns or promote the use of seat belts. Another characteristic of social marketing is that is planned to influence individual behaviour to improve well-being. It includes more than just advertising in traditional mass media, and may extend to educational programs and formal enforcement regimes in the case of road safety campaigns. It planned campaigns, implemented by governmental and non-governmental organisations. A clear example that differentiates societal from social marketing is a marketing campaign on non-smoking. A smoking cessation advertisement is an example of social marketing, but if the marketing strategies and techniques used in that campaign focus on increasing the well-being of society, that same campaign can be an example of societal marketing.\n\nThe societal marketing concept was a forerunner of sustainable marketing in integrating issues of social responsibility into commercial marketing strategies. In contrast to that, social marketing uses commercial marketing theories, tools and techniques to influence social change. Social marketing applies a \"customer orientated\" approach and uses the concepts and tools used by commercial marketers in pursuit of social goals like Anti-Smoking-Campaigns or fund raising for NGOs.\n\nUnlike societal marketing, CSR has existed for many years. Another difference is that CSR \"focuses more in a corporate level and stakeholders\", while societal marketing is more concerned about the consumer and their long term benefits. CSR social and environmental concerns are integrated into all business operations. CSR is mainly run by companies, while social marketing mainly by Government or Non profits organizations. One example of CSR among companies is what Häagen-Dazs is doing with their \"microsite\" to raise awareness to the general public about the preservation of the honeybee.\n\nCorporations are the one who are striving during the whole time for improvements. They are turning to all kind of forms of corporate societal marketing programs to help build and repair their brand images.\n\nCorporate Social Marketing, or CSM, usually refers to marketing efforts that have at least one social related objective, such as charity founding, among its goals. Typical examples are releasing a certain percentage of the final sale product to a charity related to the product, or sponsoring events that encourage social well-being such as the Olympic Games. Corporate Social Marketing benefits a company in many ways, but its main goal is to improve the image the public has of the company. A company that appears committed to improving the lives or others, the environment or other worthy causes is seen in a better light than one who doesn't, and more and more business are hoping to benefit from that.\n\nSo, it can be so, that CSM programs are becoming extremely popular because the leaders believe that it is a good business to be viewed as a socially responsible company. However, even though past research suggests that CSM may be effective in improving brand equity and increasing market share, there are limits to the effectiveness of these initiatives.\n\nAn example of his is how corporate social initiatives adversely affected purchase intentions if consumers perceived that the company would forgo product quality in order to be socially responsible.\n\nDepending on the nature of the CSM program, the intent of the corporation may not be as obvious to the consumers. This happens if the benefits to the corporation are not apparent or conflicts with what the consumer already believes about a specific firm or industry.\n\nSince firms exist to make a profit, consumers may spend considerable energy in an attempt to infer motives related to the profit-oriented goals. As an example, a consumer may be suspicious of a tobacco company that undertakes a campaign to prevent underage smoking. If this is successful, the company would be affected and the cigarette sales will be lowered. So, in this situation, consumers' suspicions may lead them to infer motives that would actually protect the companies financial condition – as they are trying to improve their image to sell more cigarettes to adults. However, if a tobacco company undertook a CSM Campaign, that would sustain their business consumers may be able to infer profit motives more easily and then have a more favorable attitude toward the partnership. Therefore, it can be concluded that the attitude of the consumers could be better if they knew more about the motives of the companies and they were more obvious.\n\nAnother aspect that may cause suspicion with consumers is the amount of harm that a company has already done, either because of unsafe products or harmful production practices. It is logical that consumers are more suspicious to companies that sell harmful products. Again examples are the tobacco companies and alcohol companies as well. They will meet resistance from consumers when they undertake socially-oriented campaigns aimed at mitigating the effects of their products. That is why when different industries are separated, two very general dimensions are used – the harmful nature of the products and the harmful nature of the production methods.\n\nThis classification can briefly show how consumer are influenced by the various CSM efforts. Companies that work in this \"dangerous\" industries are not that successful always, because the consumers may be suspicious of any societal efforts the company attempts to undertake. Consumers will infer less society-serving motives and more self-serving motives for corporate societal marketing programs undertaken by firms that operate in mixed or sin industries.\n\nBased on how easily consumers could infer profit-driven motives, are classified the types of CSM campaigns: Positively tied to product sales, positively tied to product sales, not directly tied to sales but aimed at sustaining the company's business, completely unrelated.\n\nSocietal marketing has been the subject of a number of criticisms: \n\nA key issue concerns the question of who decides what is in the public’s best interests. The moral agenda implicit in the societal marketing concept is underdeveloped and often implicit. Gaski argued that marketers should step away from their classic goal of customer satisfaction and profit maximization while respecting the minimum governmental standards imposed by law and enter this public policy area, since marketers themselves would have to decide what actions are consistent with public welfare. Marketers might have neither the competence nor the right to determine the \"public interest.\" Instead, it should be the customers who decide what is good for them, or their political representatives and dictate that to the industry. \n\nSome scholars have argued that societal marketing is not a distinct concept, but rather it is a mere extension of the marketing concept. Others have pointed out that the literature in the field is vague, poorly defined and underdeveloped. The societal marketing concept has become an excellent strategy for promotions with social dimensions and for exploring consumers' behavioural response to such corporate 'doing good'.\n\nSocietal marketing is gaining the marketers and consumer attention and there is every reason to expect it to continue to evolve in practice. It focuses on providing win-win opportunities to companies, consumers and society. But achieving the compelling benefits for each party involved is very complicated. So much more research is needed. To achieve a win situation for organization involved, is dependent largely upon how the key constituents react. In this context, anticipating consumer reaction is really challenging which can be affected by number of factors that often vary across different segments. The several research questions remain to be answered like how different factors affects reaction to societal marketing and how do the various factors interact? How can societal initiatives be designed to leverage positive reaction and mitigate negative ones? \n\nFor consumers to win, societal marketing must provide them with compelling benefits that increase their overall welfare. What benefits did societal marketing initiative actually provided to consumers? Are there direct benefits such as increased satisfaction with their interaction with commercial or nonprofit organization?\nDetermining whether there is a win situation for society by societal marketing initiative is the most difficult question to be answered. We turn to the two questions proposed by Bloom, Hussien and Szykmann (1995): Is the society better off because of this program? Does corporate involvement result in better performance than if it would have been managed by NGOs or government agencies? \nSocietal marketing is becoming globally popular but there exist a scarcity of research in this field. Therefore extensive future research is needed particularly investigating questions with respect to its impact on consumer attitudes to corporate image, product image and their purchase intention or brand choice as well as on positive impact on society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2917649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2917649", "title": "Speech", "text": "Speech\n\nSpeech is human vocal communication using language. Each language uses phonetic combinations of a limited set of perfectly articulated and individualized vowel and consonant sounds that form the sound of its words (that is, all English words sound different from all French words, even if they are the same word, e.g., \"role\" or \"hotel\"), and using those words in their semantic character as words in the lexicon of a language according to the syntactic constraints that govern lexical words' function in a sentence. In speaking, speakers perform many different intentional speech acts, e.g., informing, declaring, asking, persuading, directing, and can use enunciation, intonation, degrees of loudness, tempo, and other non-representational or paralinguistic aspects of vocalization to convey meaning. In their speech speakers also unintentionally communicate many aspects of their social position such as sex, age, place of origin (through accent), physical states (alertness and sleepiness, vigor or weakness, health or illness), psychic states (emotions or moods), physico-psychic states (sobriety or drunkenness, normal consciousness and trance states), education or experience, and the like. \n\nAlthough people ordinarily use speech in dealing with other persons (or animals), when people swear they do not always mean to communicate anything to anyone, and sometimes in expressing urgent emotions or desires they use speech as a quasi-magical cause, as when they encourage a player in a game to do or warn them not to do something. There are also many situations in which people engage in solitary speech. People talk to themselves sometimes in acts that are a development of what some psychologists (e.g., Lev Vygotsky) have maintained is the use in thinking of silent speech in an interior monologue to vivify and organize cognition, sometimes in the momentary adoption of a dual persona as self addressing self as though addressing another person. Solo speech can be used to memorize or to test one's memorization of things, and in prayer or in meditation (e.g., the use of a mantra).\n\nResearchers study many different aspects of speech: speech production and speech perception of the sounds used in a language, speech repetition, speech errors, the ability to map heard spoken words onto the vocalizations needed to recreate them, which plays a key role in children's enlargement of their vocabulary, and what different areas of the human brain, such as Broca's area and Wernicke's area, underlie speech. Speech is the subject of study for linguistics, cognitive science, communication studies, psychology, computer science, speech pathology, otolaryngology, and acoustics. \nSpeech compares with written language\n, which may differ in its vocabulary, syntax, and phonetics from the spoken language, a situation called diglossia. \n\nThe evolutionary origins of speech are unknown and subject to much debate and speculation. While animals also communicate using vocalizations, and trained apes such as Washoe and Kanzi can use simple sign language, no animals' vocalizations are articulated phonemically and syntactically, and do not constitute speech.\n\nSpeech production is a multi-step process by which thoughts are generated into spoken utterances. Production involves the selection of appropriate words and the appropriate form of those words from the lexicon and morphology, and the organization of those words through the syntax. Then, the phonetic properties of the words are retrieved and the sentence is uttered through the articulations associated with those phonetic properties.\n\nIn linguistics (articulatory phonetics), articulation refers to how the tongue, lips, jaw, vocal cords, and other speech organs used to produce sounds are used to make sounds. Speech sounds are categorized by manner of articulation and place of articulation. Place of articulation refers to where the airstream in the mouth is constricted. Manner of articulation refers to the manner in which the speech organs interact, such as how closely the air is restricted, what form of airstream is used (e.g. pulmonic, implosive, ejectives, and clicks), whether or not the vocal cords are vibrating, and whether the nasal cavity is opened to the airstream. The concept is primarily used for the production of consonants, but can be used for vowels in qualities such as voicing and nasalization. For any place of articulation, there may be several manners of articulation, and therefore several homorganic consonants.\n\nNormal human speech is pulmonic, produced with pressure from the lungs, which creates phonation in the glottis in the larynx, which is then modified by the vocal tract and mouth into different vowels and consonants. However humans can pronounce words without the use of the lungs and glottis in alaryngeal speech, of which there are three types: esophageal speech, pharyngeal speech and buccal speech (better known as Donald Duck talk).\n\nSpeech production is a complex activity, and as a consequence errors are common, especially in children. Speech errors come in many forms and are often used to provide evidence to support hypotheses about the nature of speech. As a result, speech errors are often used in the construction of models for language production and child language acquisition. For example, the fact that children often make the error of over-regularizing the -ed past tense suffix in English (e.g. saying 'singed' instead of 'sang') shows that the regular forms are acquired earlier. Speech errors associated with certain kinds of aphasia have been used to map certain components of speech onto the brain and see the relation between different aspects of production: for example, the difficulty of expressive aphasia patients in producing regular past-tense verbs, but not irregulars like 'sing-sang' has been used to demonstrate that regular inflected forms of a word are not individually stored in the lexicon, but produced from affixation of the base form.\n\nSpeech perception refers to the processes by which humans can interpret and understand the sounds used in language. The study of speech perception is closely linked to the fields of phonetics and phonology in linguistics and cognitive psychology and perception in psychology. Research in speech perception seeks to understand how listeners recognize speech sounds and use this information to understand spoken language. Research into speech perception also has applications in building computer systems that can recognize speech, as well as improving speech recognition for hearing- and language-impaired listeners.\n\nSpeech perception is categorical, in that people put the sounds they hear into categories rather than perceiving them as a spectrum. People are more likely to be able to hear differences in sounds across categorical boundaries than within them. A good example of this is voice onset time (VOT). For example, Hebrew speakers, who distinguish voiced /b/ from voiceless /p/, will more easily detect a change in VOT from -10 ( perceived as /b/ ) to 0 ( perceived as /p/ ) than a change in VOT from +10 to +20, or -10 to -20, despite this being an equally large change on the VOT spectrum.\n\nIn speech repetition, speech being heard is quickly turned from sensory input into motor instructions needed for its immediate or delayed vocal imitation (in phonological memory). This type of mapping plays a key role in enabling children to expand their spoken vocabulary. Masur (1995) found that how often children repeat novel words versus those they already have in their lexicon is related to the size of their lexicon later on, with young children who repeat more novel words having a larger lexicon later in development. Speech repetition could help facilitate the acquisition of this larger lexicon.\n\nThere are several organic and psychological factors that can affect speech. Among these are:\n\n\nThe classical or Wernicke-Geschwind model of the language system in the brain focuses on Broca's area in the inferior prefrontal cortex, and Wernicke's area in the posterior superior temporal gyrus on the dominant hemisphere of the brain (typically the left hemisphere for language). In this model, a linguistic auditory signal is first sent from the auditory cortex to Wernicke's area. The lexicon is accessed in Wernicke's area, and these words are sent via the arcuate fasciculus to Broca's area, where morphology, syntax, and instructions for articulation are generated. This is then sent from Broca's area to the motor cortex for articulation.\n\nPaul Broca identified an approximate region of the brain in 1861 which, when damaged in two of his patients, caused severe deficits in speech production, where his patients were unable to speak beyond a few monosyllabic words. This deficit, known as Broca's or expressive aphasia, is characterized by difficulty in speech production where speech is slow and labored, function words are absent, and syntax is severely impaired, as in telegraphic speech. In expressive aphasia, speech comprehension is generally less affected except in the comprehension of grammatically complex sentences. Wernicke's area is named after Carl Wernicke, who in 1874 proposed a connection between damage to the posterior area of the left superior temporal gyrus and aphasia, as he noted that not all aphasic patients had suffered damage to the prefrontal cortex. Damage to Wernicke's area produces Wernicke's or receptive aphasia, which is characterized by relatively normal syntax and prosody but severe impairment in lexical access, resulting in poor comprehension and nonsensical or jargon speech.\n\nModern models of the neurological systems behind linguistic comprehension and production recognize the importance of Broca's and Wernicke's areas, but are not limited to them nor solely to the left hemisphere. Instead, multiple streams are involved in speech production and comprehension. Damage to the left lateral sulcus has been connected with difficulty in processing and producing morphology and syntax, while lexical access and comprehension of irregular forms (e.g. eat-ate) remain unaffected.\nMoreover, the circuits involved in human speech comprehension dynamically adapt with learning, for example, by becoming more efficient in terms of processing time when listening to familiar messages such as learned verses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20302230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20302230", "title": "Symbolic boundaries", "text": "Symbolic boundaries\n\nSymbolic boundaries are a theory of how people form social groups proposed by cultural sociologists.\nSymbolic boundaries are “conceptual distinctions made by social actors…that separate people into groups and generate feelings of similarity and group membership.”\n\nSymbolic boundaries are a necessary but insufficient condition for social change. Only when symbolic boundaries are widely agreed upon can they take on a constraining character and become social boundaries.\n\nÉmile Durkheim saw the symbolic boundary between sacred and profane as the most profound of all social facts, and the one from which lesser symbolic boundaries were derived.\nRituals - secular or religious - were for Durkheim the means by which groups maintained their symbolic/moral boundaries. \n\nMary Douglas has subsequently emphasised the role of symbolic boundaries in organising experience, private and public, even in a secular society; while other neo-Durkheimians highlight the role of deviancy as one of revealing and making plain the symbolic boundaries that uphold moral order, and of providing an opportunity for their communal reinforcement. As Durkheim himself put it, \"Crime brings together upright consciences and concentrates them...to talk of the event and wax indignant in common\", thereby reaffirming the collective barriers that have been breached.\n\nPrejudice is often the result of crossing the symbolic boundaries that preserve a group's sense of itself - boundaries that as with a nation's frontiers may in fact be real as well as symbolic. (The ancient ceremony of beating the bounds highlights that overlapping of real and symbolic bounds). Salman Rushdie has emphasised the role of the migrant as a postmodern representative, transgressing symbolic boundaries, and (potentially at least) demonised by their upholders in the host nation as a result.\n\nMarjorie Garber has explored the role of the transvestite in crossing the symbolic boundaries of gender - something which she considered tended to challenge those of race as well.\n\nSymbolic boundaries are distinct from “social boundaries\" that are \"objectified forms of social differences manifested in unequal access to an unequal distribution of resources… and social opportunities.”\n\nPlaying may be seen as a way of testing social boundaries - the unspoken frames set about social activities. Humour too provides a way of illuminating, testing and perhaps also shifting symbolic boundaries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51607869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51607869", "title": "The Little Mouse", "text": "The Little Mouse\n\nThe Little Mouse, or , is a fairy tale legend popular in most Francophone countries, most notably in France, and Wallonia. The legend of the Little Mouse ties in with that of the Tooth Fairy, the difference being that in this case, a little mouse sneaks in while the child is asleep, and replaces the lost baby tooth kept under his/her pillow with coins.\n\nSimilar legends exist in Hispanic culture, such as Ratoncito Pérez , as well as most South-Asian cultures from India to Japan. It was said in lore and mythology, that if the lost baby tooth of a child was found by an animal, the adult teeth that would follow would bear resemblance to the teeth of that animal. Hence, a mouse was often the animal of choice, because rodent teeth are sharp, and keep growing.\n\nThe most feasible origin of this legend, at least in the francophone context, dates back to 17th Century France, to a story penned by Marie-Catherine Le Jumel de Barneville, baronne d’Aulnoy named \"The Little Good Mouse\" (( or 'La bonne petite souris'. Her story spoke of a fairy who transformed herself into a mouse to be able to defeat an evil king. The fairy, in her mouse form, hid herself under the pillow of the king and caused all his teeth to fall out.\n\nMany interpretations of the Little Mouse or have appeared in French popular culture. The mouse is often used to make children less frightened, particularly regarding concerns they may have about losing their baby teeth.In French-language media, the little mouse has also starred as the central character of quite a good number of children's books. To name a few as examples : \n"}
{"id": "3834447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3834447", "title": "Túath", "text": "Túath\n\nTúath (plural \"túatha\") is the Old Irish term for the basic political and jurisdictional unit of Gaelic Ireland. \"Túath\" can refer to both a geographical territory as well the people who lived in that territory. \n\nIn ancient Irish terms, a household was reckoned at about 30 people per dwelling. A \"trícha cét\" (\"thirty hundreds\"), was an area comprising 100 dwellings or, roughly, 3,000 people. A \"túath\" consisted of a number of allied \"trícha céta\", and therefore referred to no fewer than 6,000 people. Probably a more accurate number for a \"túath\" would be no fewer than 9,000 people.\n\nEach \"túath\" was a self contained unit, with its own executive, assembly, courts system and defence force. \"Túatha\" were grouped together into confederations for mutual defence. There was a hierarchy of \"túatha\" statuses, depending on geographical position and connection to the ruling dynasties of the region. The organization of \"túatha\" is covered to a great extent within the Brehon laws, Irish laws written down in the 7th century, also known as the \"Fénechas\".\n\nThe old Irish political system was altered during and after the Elizabethan conquest, being gradually replaced by a system of baronies and counties under the new colonial system. Due to a loss of knowledge, there has been some confusion regarding old territorial units in Ireland, mainly between \"trícha céta\" and \"túatha\", which in some cases seem to be overlapping units, and in others, different measurements altogether. The \"trícha céta\" were primarily for reckoning military units; specifically, the number of fighting forces a particular population could rally. Some scholars equate the \"túath\" with the modern parish, whereas others equate it with the barony. This partly depends on how the territory was first incorporated into the county system. in cases where surrender and regrant was the method, the match between the old \"túath\" and the modern barony is reasonably equivalent. Whereas in cases like Ulster, which involved large scale colonisation and confiscation of land, the shape of the original divisions is not always clear or recoverable. \n\n\"Túath\" in Old Irish means both \"the people\", \"country, territory\", and \"territory, petty kingdom, the political and jurisdictional unit of ancient Ireland\". The word possibly derives from Proto-Celtic *\"toutā\" (\"tribe, tribal homeland\"; cognate roots may be found in the Gaulish god name Toutatis), which is perhaps from Proto-Indo-European *\"tewtéh₂\" (\"tribesman, tribal citizen\"). In Modern Irish it is spelled \"tuath\", without the fada accent, and is usually used to refer to \"rural districts\" or \"the country\" (as in \"the countryside\"); however the historical meaning is still understood and employed, as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33896833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33896833", "title": "Urban acupuncture", "text": "Urban acupuncture\n\nUrban acupuncture is a socio-environmental theory that combines contemporary urban design with traditional Chinese acupuncture, using small-scale interventions to transform the larger urban context. Sites are selected through analysis of aggregate social, economic and ecological factors, and are developed through a dialogue between designers and the community. Just as the practice of acupuncture is aimed at relieving stress in the human body, the goal of urban acupuncture is to relieve stress in the built environment. In Taipei, there was an urban acupuncture workshop that aimed to \"produce small-scale but socially catalytic interventions\" into the city's fabric.\n\nOriginally coined by Barcelonan architect and urbanist, Manuel de Sola Morales, the term has been recently championed and developed further by Finnish architect and social theorist Marco Casagrande, this school of thought eschews massive urban renewal projects in favour of a more localised and community approach that, in an era of constrained budgets and limited resources, could democratically and cheaply offer a respite to urban dwellers.\nCasagrande views cities as complex energy organisms in which different overlapping layers of energy flows are determining the actions of the citizens as well as the development of the city. By mixing environmentalism and urban design Casagrande is developing methods of punctual manipulation of the urban energy flows in order to create an ecologically sustainable urban development towards the so-called 3rd Generation City (postindustrial city). The theory is developed in the Tamkang University of Taiwan and at independent multidisciplinary research center Ruin Academy. With focus on environmentalism and urban design, Casagrande defines urban acupuncture as a design tool where punctual manipulations contribute to creating sustainable urban development, such as the community gardens and urban farms in Taipei.\n\nCasagrande describes urban acupuncture as:\n\n\"[a] cross-over architectural manipulation of the collective sensuous intellect of a city. City is viewed as multi-dimensional sensitive energy-organism, a living environment. Urban acupuncture aims into a touch with this nature.\" and \"Sensitivity to understand the energy flows of the collective chi beneath the visual city and reacting on the hot-spots of this chi. Architecture is in the position to produce the acupuncture needles for the urban chi.\" and \"A weed will root into the smallest crack in the asphalt and eventually break the city. Urban acupuncture is the weed and the acupuncture point is the crack. The possibility of the impact is total, connecting human nature as part of nature.\"\n\nCasagrande utilized the tenets of acupuncture: treat the points of blockage and let relief ripple throughout the body. More immediate and sensitive to community needs than traditional institutional forms of large scale urban renewal interventions would not only respond to localized needs, but do so with a knowledge of how citywide systems operated and converged at that single node. Release pressure at strategic points, release pressure for the whole city.\n\nIn theory, urban acupuncture opens the door for uncontrolled creativity and freedom. Citizens are enabled to join the creative participatory planning process, feel free to use city space for any purpose and develop their environment according to their will. This \"new\" post-industrialized city Casagrande, dubbed the Third Generation City, is driven by people who are concerned about the destruction that the modern machine is causing to nature including human nature. They want sustainable co-operation with the rest of the nature. In a larger context, a site of urban acupuncture can be viewed as communicating to the city outside like a natural sign of life in a city programmed to subsume it.\n\nUrban acupuncture bears some similarities to the new urbanist concept of Tactical Urbanism. The idea focuses on local resources rather than capital-intensive municipal programs and promotes the idea of citizens installing and caring for interventions. These small changes, proponents claim, will boost community morale and catalyze revitalization. Boiled down to a simple statement, \"urban acupuncture\" means focusing on small, subtle, bottom-up interventions that harness and direct community energy in positive ways to heal urban blight and improve the cityscape. It is meant as an alternative to large, top-down, mega-interventions that typically require heavy investments of municipal funds (which many cities at the moment simply don't have) and the navigation of yards of bureaucratic red tape. The micro-scale interventions targeted by \"urban acupuncture\" appeal to both citizen-activists and cash-strapped communities. In Mexico urban acupuncture converts temporary housing, like sheds in the slums, to simple homes that allow for \"add-ons\" later, based on need and affordability. This strategy transforms the slum zone, without relocating families that have been living together for generations. In South Africa Urban Acupuncture is viewed as a possibility to provide a means for people to unlock their creativity and the advantages thereof, for example, innovation and entrepreneurship concentrating on parts of the city, i.e. communities thereby providing opportunities to those areas which do not have the sort of infrastructure that is found in mainstream cities. This approach can provide a more realistic and less costly method for city planners and citizens as an effective way to make minor improvements in the communities in order to achieve a greater good in the cities.\n\nJaime Lerner, the former mayor of Curitiba, suggests urban acupuncture as the future solution for contemporary urban issues; by focusing on very narrow pressure points in cities, we can initiate positive ripple effects for the greater society. Urban acupuncture reclaims the ownership of land to the public and emphasizes the importance of community development through small interventions in design of cities. It involves pinpointed interventions that can be accomplished quickly to release energy and create a positive ripple effect.\nHe described in 2007:\n\"I believe that some medicinal \"magic\" can and should be applied to cities, as many are sick and some nearly terminal. As with the medicine needed in the interaction between doctor and patient, in urban planning it is also necessary to make the city react; to poke an area in such a way that it is able to help heal, improve, and create positive chain reactions. It is indispensable in revitalizing interventions to make the organism work in a different way.\"\n\nTaiwanese architect and academic Ti-Nan Chi is looking with micro urbanism at the vulnerable and insignificant side of contemporary cities around the world identified as micro-zones, points for recovery in which micro-projects have been carefully proposed to involve the public on different levels, aiming to resolve conflicts among property owners, villagers, and the general public. A loosely affiliated team of architects Wang Shu, Marco Casagrande, Hsieh Ying-chun and Roan Ching-yueh (sometimes called WEAK! Architecture) are describing the unofficial Instant City, or Instant Taipei, as architecture that uses the Official City as a \"growing platform and energy source, where to attach itself like a parasite and from where to leach the electricity and water… [The Instant City's] illegal urban farms or night markets is so widespread and deep rooted in the Taiwanese culture and cityscape that we could almost speak of another city on top of the \"official\" Taipei, a parallel city – or a para-city.\" WEAK! is calling urban acupuncture depending on the context as Illegal Architecture, Orchid Architecture, the People's Architecture, or Weak Architecture. The theory of urban acupuncture suggests that scores of small-scale, less costly and localized projects is what cities need in order to recover and renew themselves.\n\nThe winner of the Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award (DBUAA) Cape Town 2012 is the neighbourhood project \"Mothers Unite\" demonstrating the power of urban acupuncture. Mothers Unite was founded in 2007 and provides a safe haven from the gangsterism, drugs and violence that are part and parcel of street and home life in the area. Built with donated shipping containers, the village is made up of a library, kitchen, office, sheltered area, playground and food garden. Professor Edgar Pieterse:\n\n\"Durable urban change is often about carefully targeted micro interventions that can change the energies and dynamics of a surrounding neighbourhood. When one engages with the physical manifestations that the tenacity, blood, sweat, and tears of the protagonists of Mothers Unite and Masiphumelele Library (another of the eight finalists) have created, the power of urban acupuncture is apparent. These projects serve as reminders that through vision, commitment over the long haul, and principle-based partnerships, just about any problem can be confronted and addressed.\"\n\nIn ecological restoration of industrial cities Urban Acupuncture can take form as spontaneous and often illegal urban farms and community gardens punctuating the more mechanical city and tuning it towards a more sustainable co-existence with the natural environment. \nUrban Acupuncture areas can receive, treat and recycle the waste from the surrounding city acting as eco-valleys within the urban fabric. In River Urbanism the Urban Acupuncture areas can include underground stormwater reservoirs and act as flood relief for the surrounding city as a sponge and they can act as biological filters purifying water originated from polluted rivers. Urban acupuncture is a point by point manipulation of the urban energy to create a sustainable town or city, which Marco Casagrande has dubbed '3rd Generation Cities'.\n\nAmerican artist Gordon Matta-Clark is credited with developing a system for identifying pockets of disrepair in the built environment—the first step in the framework of urban acupuncture. \nArtist Miru Kim explores industrial ruins and structures making her look at the city as one living organism. She claims to feel not only the skin of the city, but also to penetrate the inner layers of its intestines and veins, which swarm with minuscule life forms. Referring to a public environmental art work, Cicada, Casagrande explains:\n\n\"Cicada is urban acupuncture for Taipei city penetrating the hard surfaces of industrial laziness in order to reach the original ground and get in touch with the collective Chi, the local knowledge that binds the people of Taipei basin with nature. The cocoon of Cicada is an accidental mediator between the modern man and reality. There is no other reality than nature.\"\n\nEnvironmental art as urban acupuncture is an artistic way of injecting a healthy dose of natural elements and human scale into the mechanized urban grid.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46750201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46750201", "title": "Yoruba tribal marks", "text": "Yoruba tribal marks\n\nThe Yoruba tribal marks are scarifications which are specific identification and beautification marks designed on the face or body of the Yoruba people. The tribal marks are part of the Yoruba culture and are usually inscribed on the body by burning or cutting of the skin during childhood. \nThe primary function of the tribal marks is for identification of a person's tribe, family or patrilineal heritage. Other secondary functions of the marks are symbols of beauty, Yoruba creativity and keeping mischievous children alive (ila Abiku). This practice was popular among Yoruba people of Nigeria, Benin, and Togo. During the trans-Atlantic slave trade, tribal identification and facial stripes became important. Some repatriated slaves later reunited with their communities by looking at facial stripes.\n\nHowever, the use of tribal marks is fading in Yoruba land.\n\nIn traditional Yoruba societies, every child is born into a patrilineal clan called idile baba in Yoruba language. The clan share clan names (orile), oriki (poetry), taboos (eewo) and facial marks (ila). The facial marks on the child assigns the child full clan membership rights. The children with facial marks are called Okola. Families or individuals lacking the normal features consistent with the tribe are not considered as acquiring full standing as agents in Yoruba society. They would also lack the capacity for meaningful behavior, such as greeting, stating and commanding.\nEach tribe of the Yoruba ethnic group had different inscription patterns which appears in different sizes and shapes at different locations within the face or body. The location and position of the mark's inscription depends on the tribe and culture. The tribal marks could be inscribed on the breast, arm, lap or buttocks, but they are usually on the face.\n\nThe Pele style is three longitudinal lines, inscribed on the cheeks.\n\nPele have different variants. The variants includes; \"Pele Ife\", a three longitudinal line inscribed on the cheek. It is peculiar to the Ile Ife people. \"Pele Ijebu\" and \"Pele Ijesha\" are other variants of Pele. Both variants are three short longitudinal lines inscribed on the cheeks.\n\nOwu tribal marks consist of six incisions on each side of the cheeks and peculiar to the indigenes of Owu, an historical city in Abeokuta, the capital of Ogun State, Nigeria. The Owu tribal mark was inscribed on the cheeks of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, the former President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.\n\nThe Gọmbọ style, also known as Kẹkẹ, consists of multiple straight and curved lines about a half of an inch apart inscribed on the cheeks on both sides of the mouth. Indigenes of Ogbomosho in Oyo State are usually identified by the Gombo or Kẹkẹ style of Yoruba tribal marks.\n\nAbaja can be both a basic and also a complex style. In its basic form, it is either three or four horizontal stripes on the cheeks. \nThe Abaja style also consists of twelve horizontal lines, six lines per cheek. It is often referred to as \"Abaja Alaafin Mefa Mefa\". This tribal mark is unique to the indigenes of Oyo, Nigeria.\nThe Abaja style of Yoruba tribal mark was inscribed on the cheeks of Lamidi Adeyemi III, the Alaafin of Oyo.\n\nThe use of tribal marks as a means of identification and beautification among the Yoruba tribe is no longer a norm and some Yoruba states have enacted certain laws that prohibit the use of the marks. Violators of the law are liable to fines or imprisonment (or both). In Oyo State, for example, the prohibition of tribal marks is an integral part of the state Child Rights Law, a law that imposes a fine or one-month imprisonment or both for violation. According to the law \"No person shall tattoo or make a skin mark or cause any tattoo or skin mark to be made on a child\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40898676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40898676", "title": "Zuzana Beňušková", "text": "Zuzana Beňušková\n\nProf. PhDr. Zuzana Beňušková, CSc. (née Zuzana Wagnerová, born 27 October 1960) is a Slovak ethnologist, ethnographer, cultural and social anthropologist. She is a Professor of ethnology at University of Constantine the Philosopher in Nitra. Her fields of research are ethnic minorities, social relations, customs, cultural regions of Slovakia and history of ethnology.\n\nZuzana Beňušková was born in Bratislava, Slovakia. She is a child of a teacher and sociologist doc. PhDr. Vojtech Wagner, CSc. and PhDr. Irena Wagnerová, CSc., andragogist. She was dancer in Slovak traditional dance group Lúčnica.\n\nZuzana Beňušková graduated from Comenius University in Bratislava. She started to work at the Slovak Academy of Sciences, Institute of Ethnology, devoting to rituals, religiosity, ethnic minorities and the town ethnology. Since 1996 she also teaches at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Constantine the Philosopher (UCP) in Nitra. In 2004 she became an Assistant Professor and in 2013 a University Professor. She was the Head of the Department of Ethnology and Ethnomusicology at the UCP University from 2005 until 2011.\n\nZuzana Beňušková is an author of over 80 journals and successful publication projects „The Traditional Culture of the Regions in Slovakia\" (VEDA1998, 2005, DAJAMA 2010 under the title The Folk Culture), The Religiosity and Inter–Confession Relations in a Local Community/Religiozita a medzikonfesionálne vzťahy v lokálnom spoločenstve (ÚEt SAV 2004) and Tekovské Lužany : kultúrna a sociálna diverzita vidieckeho spoločenstva / Tekovské Lužany: cultural and social diversity of the rural community (UKF, Nitra 2011).\n\nShe was the editor of the journal Etnologické rozpravy (The Discussions on Ethnology) in 2002 –2003; she was the chairperson of the Slovak Society of Ethnology (Národopisná spoločnosť Slovenska) in 2002-2008. Since 2006 she is a member of the Organising Committee of Etnofilm Čadca film festival. \nShe is a member of Slovak traditional dance group Seniorky Lúčnice.\n\nZuzana Beňušková has a son Matej.\n"}
