{"id": "51738450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51738450", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Macerata", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Macerata\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Macerata is an academy of fine arts located in Macerata, Italy. It was founded in 1972.\n\nInitially, the Accademia was located in the Palazzo Buonaccorsi. After the Umbria and Marche earthquake of 1997, it was moved to its current location, in an 18th-century former convent. Among its directors were painters and art critics, including Remo Brindisi.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4804177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4804177", "title": "African aesthetic", "text": "African aesthetic\n\nWhile the African continent is vast and its peoples diverse, certain standards of beauty and correctness in artistic expression and physical appearance are held in common among various African societies. \n\nTaken collectively, these values and standards have been characterised as comprising a generally accepted African aesthetic.\n\nIn \"African Art in Motion\", African art scholar and Yale professor Robert Farris Thompson turns his attention to cool in both the African and African-American contexts: \nThe mind of an elder within the body of the young is suggested by the striking African custom of dancing \"hot\" with a \"cool\" unsmiling face. This quality seems to have haunted Ten Rhyne at the Cape in 1673 and it struck the imagination of an early observer of strongly African-influenced dancing in Louisiana in the early nineteenth century, who noted \"thumping ecstasy\" and \"intense solemnity of mien.\" The mask of the cool, or facial serenity, has been noted at many points in Afro-American history: \nIt is interesting that what remains a spiritual principle in some parts of Africa and the rare African-influenced portions of the modern U.S.A., such as tidewater Georgia, becomes in the mainline Afro-American urban culture an element of contemporary street behavior:\nNegro boys…have a 'cool' way of walking in which the upper trunk and pelvis rock fore and aft while the head remains stable with the eyes looking straight ahead. The…walk is quite slow, and the Negroes take it as a way of 'strutting' or 'showing off'...\nThe cool style of male walking in the United States is called \"bopping\" ... Mystical coolness in Africa has changed in urban African-American assertions of independent power. But the functions, to heal and gather strength, partially remain. And the name \"cool\" [\"kule\"], remains. And the body is still played in two patterns, one stable, the other active, part energy and part mind.\n\n"}
{"id": "5408726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5408726", "title": "Arches paper", "text": "Arches paper\n\nArches paper is a brand of air-dried paper that is used by printers and watercolorists. It has a warm white colour and is produced in hot-pressed, cold-pressed, and rough varieties. Arches paper is made in the village of Arches in the Vosges, France.\n\nThe history of Arches starts in 1492 when the Arches site completed the amalgamation of the paper-making facilities around the village of Arches, south of Epinal. \n\nThe Moulins d'Arches turned to the production of high quality paper for writing and art publication. The mill thus produced paper for incunables (the name given to the first printed books), such as the \"Chronique de Nuremberg\" by Dürer. Also printed on Arches paper was the \"Description De L'Égypte\" commissioned by Napoleon I upon his return from his Egyptian campaign. The work was used by the royalty from 1809 to 1828.\n\nThe product range comprises the following papers:\n\n"}
{"id": "1408731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1408731", "title": "Art criticism", "text": "Art criticism\n\nArt criticism is the discussion or evaluation of visual art. Art critics usually criticise art in the context of aesthetics or the theory of beauty. A goal of art criticism is the pursuit of a rational basis for art appreciation but it is questionable whether such criticism can transcend prevailing socio-political circumstances.\n\nThe variety of artistic movements has resulted in a division of art criticism into different disciplines which may each use different criteria for their judgements. The most common division in the field of criticism is between historical criticism and evaluation, a form of art history, and contemporary criticism of work by living artists.\n\nDespite perceptions that art criticism is a much lower risk activity than making art, opinions of current art are always liable to drastic corrections with the passage of time. Critics of the past are often ridiculed for either favouring artists now derided (like the academic painters of the late 19th century) or dismissing artists now venerated (like the early work of the Impressionists). Some art movements themselves were named disparagingly by critics, with the name later adopted as a sort of badge of honour by the artists of the style (e.g., Impressionism, Cubism), with the original negative meaning forgotten.\n\nArtists have often had an uneasy relationship with their critics. Artists usually need positive opinions from critics for their work to be viewed and purchased; unfortunately for the artists, only later generations may understand it.\n\nArt is an important part of being human and can be found through all aspects of our lives, regardless of the culture or times. There are many different variables that determine one's judgment of art such as aesthetics, cognition or perception. Art can be objective or subjective based on personal preference toward aesthetics and form. It can be based on the elements and principle of design and by social and cultural acceptance. Art is a basic human instinct with a diverse range of form and expression. Art can stand-alone with an instantaneous judgment or can be viewed with a deeper more educated knowledge. Aesthetic, pragmatic, expressive, formalist, relativist, processional, imitation, ritual, cognition, mimetic and postmodern theories are some of many theories to criticize and appreciate art. Art criticism and appreciation can be subjective based on personal preference toward aesthetics and form, or it can be based on the elements and principle of design and by social and cultural acceptance.\n\nArt criticism has many and often numerous subjective viewpoints which are nearly as varied as there are people practising it. It is difficult to come by a more stable definition than the activity being related to the discussion and interpretation of art and its value. Depending on who is writing on the subject, \"art criticism\" itself may be obviated as a direct goal or it may include art history within its framework. Regardless of definitional problems, art criticism can refer to the history of the craft in its essays and art history itself may use critical methods implicitly. According to art historian R. Siva Kumar, \"The borders between art history and art criticism... are no more as firmly drawn as they once used to be. It perhaps began with art historians taking interest in modern art.\"\n\nArt criticism includes a descriptive aspect, where the work of art is sufficiently translated into words so as to allow a case to be made. The evaluation of a work of art that follows the description (or is interspersed with it) depends as much on the artist's output as on the experience of the critic. There is in an activity with such a marked subjective component a variety of ways in which it can be pursued. As extremes in a possible spectrum, while some favour simply remarking on the immediate impressions caused by an artistic object, others prefer a more systematic approach calling on technical knowledge, favoured aesthetic theory and the known sociocultural context the artist is immersed in to discern their intent.\n\nCritiques of art likely originated with the origins of art itself, as evidenced by texts found in the works of Plato, Vitruvius or Augustine of Hippo among others, that contain early forms of art criticism. Also, wealthy patrons have employed, at least since the start of Renaissance, intermediary art-evaluators to assist them in the procurement of commissions and/or finished pieces.\n\nArt criticism as a genre of writing, obtained its modern form in the 18th century. The earliest use of the term art criticism was by the English painter Jonathan Richardson in his 1719 publication \"An Essay on the Whole Art of Criticism\". In this work, he attempted to create an objective system for the ranking of works of art. Seven categories, including drawing, composition, invention and colouring, were given a score from 0 to 18, which were combined to give a final score. The term he introduced quickly caught on, especially as the English middle class began to be more discerning in their art acquisitions, as symbols of their flaunted social status.\n\nIn France and England in the mid 1700s, public interest in art began to become widespread, and art was regularly exhibited at the Salons in Paris and the Summer Exhibitions of London. The first writers to acquire an individual reputation as art critics in 18th-century France were Jean-Baptiste Dubos with his \"Réflexions critiques sur la poésie et sur la peinture\" (1718) which garnered the acclaim of Voltaire for the sagacity of his approach to aesthetic theory; and Étienne La Font de Saint-Yenne with \"Reflexions sur quelques causes de l'état présent de la peinture en France\" who wrote about the Salon of 1746, commenting on the socioeconomic framework of the production of the then popular Baroque art style, which led to a perception of anti-monarchist sentiments in the text.\n\nThe 18th-century French writer Denis Diderot greatly advanced the medium of art criticism. Diderot's \"The Salon of 1765\" was one of the first real attempts to capture art in words. According to art historian Thomas E. Crow, \"When Diderot took up art criticism it was on the heels of the first generation of professional writers who made it their business to offer descriptions and judgments of contemporary painting and sculpture. The demand for such commentary was a product of the similarly novel institution of regular, free, public exhibitions of the latest art\".\n\nMeanwhile, in England an exhibition of the Society of Arts in 1762 and later, in 1766, prompted a flurry of critical, though anonymous, pamphlets. Newspapers and periodicals of the period, such as the \"London Chronicle\", began to carry columns for art criticism; a form that took off with the foundation of the Royal Academy in 1768.\nIn the 1770s, the \"Morning Chronicle\" became the first newspaper to systematically review the art featured at exhibitions.\n\nFrom the 19th century onwards, art criticism became a more common vocation and even a profession, developing at times formalised methods based on particular aesthetic theories. In France, a rift emerged in the 1820s between the proponents of traditional neo-classical forms of art and the new romantic fashion. The Neoclassicists, under Étienne-Jean Delécluze defended the classical ideal and preferred carefully finished form in paintings. Romantics, such as Stendhal, criticized the old styles as overly formulaic and devoid of any feeling. Instead, they championed the new expressive, Idealistic, and emotional nuances of Romantic art. A similar, though more muted, debate also occurred in England.\n\nOne of the prominent critics in England at the time was William Hazlitt, a painter and essayist. He wrote about his deep pleasure in art and his belief that the arts could be used to improve mankind's generosity of spirit and knowledge of the world around it. He was one of a rising tide of English critics that began to grow uneasy with the increasingly abstract direction J. M. W. Turner's landscape art was moving in.\n\nOne of the great critics of the 19th century was John Ruskin. In 1843 he published \"Modern Painters\" in which he robustly defended the work of J. M. W. Turner from his critics, who charged Turner with being unfaithful to nature. Through painstaking analysis and attention to detail, Ruskin was able to demonstrate the very opposite, in what the art historian E. H. Gombrich called \"the most ambitious work of scientific art criticism ever attempted.\" Ruskin became renowned for his rich and flowing prose, and later in life he branched out to become an active and wide-ranging critic, publishing works on architecture and Renaissance art, including the \"Stones of Venice\".\nAnother dominating figure in 19th-century art criticism, was the French poet Charles Baudelaire, whose first published work was his art review \"Salon of 1845\", which attracted immediate attention for its boldness. Many of his critical opinions were novel in their time, including his championing of Eugène Delacroix. When Édouard Manet's famous \"Olympia\" (1865), a portrait of a nude courtesan, provoked a scandal for its blatant realism, Baudelaire worked privately to support his friend. He claimed that \"criticism should be partial, impassioned, political— that is to say, formed from an exclusive point of view, but also from a point of view that opens up the greatest number of horizons\". He tried to move the debate from the old binary positions of previous decades, declaring that \"the true painter, will be he who can wring from contemporary life its epic aspect and make us see and understand, with colour or in drawing, how great and poetic we are in our cravats and our polished boots\".\n\nIn 1877, John Ruskin derided \"Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket\" after the artist, James McNeill Whistler, showed it at Grosvenor Gallery: \"I have seen, and heard, much of Cockney impudence before now; but never expected to hear a ask two hundred guineas for flinging a pot of paint in the public's face.\" This criticism provoked Whistler into suing the critic for libel. The ensuing court case proved to be a Pyrrhic victory for Whistler.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century a movement towards abstraction, as opposed to specific content, began to gain ground in England, notably championed by the playwright Oscar Wilde. By the early twentieth century these attitudes formally coalesced into a coherent philosophy, through the work of Bloomsbury Group members Roger Fry and Clive Bell. As an art historian in the 1890s, Fry became intrigued with the new modernist art and its shift away from traditional depiction. His 1910 exhibition of what he called post-Impressionist art attracted much criticism for its iconoclasm. He vigorously defended himself in a lecture, in which he argued that art had moved to attempt to discover the language of pure imagination, rather than the staid and, to his mind, dishonest scientific capturing of landscape. Fry's argument proved to be very influential at the time, especially among the progressive elite. Virginia Woolf remarked that: \"in or about December 1910 [the date Fry gave his lecture] human character changed.\"\n\nIndependently, and at the same time, Clive Bell argued in his 1914 book \"Art\" that all art work has its particular 'significant form', while the conventional subject matter was essentially irrelevant. This work laid the foundations for the formalist approach to art. In 1920, Fry argued that \"it’s all the same to me if I represent a Christ or a saucepan since it's the form, and not the object itself, that interests me.\" As well as being a proponent of formalism, he argued that the value of art lies in its ability to produce a distinctive aesthetic experience in the viewer. an experience he called \"aesthetic emotion\". He defined it as that experience which is aroused by significant form. He also suggested that the reason we experience aesthetic emotion in response to the significant form of a work of art was that we perceive that form as an expression of an experience the artist has. The artist's experience in turn, he suggested, was the experience of seeing ordinary objects in the world as pure form: the experience one has when one sees something not as a means to something else, but as an end in itself.\n\nHerbert Read was a champion of modern British artists such as Paul Nash, Ben Nicholson, Henry Moore and Barbara Hepworth and became associated with Nash's contemporary arts group Unit One. He focused on the modernism of Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, and published an influential 1929 essay on the meaning of art in \"The Listener\". He also edited the trend-setting \"Burlington Magazine\" (1933–38) and helped organise the London International Surrealist Exhibition in 1936.\n\nAs in the case of Baudelaire in the 19th century, the poet-as-critic phenomenon appeared once again in the 20th, when French poet Apollinaire became the champion of Cubism. Later, French writer and hero of the Resistance André Malraux wrote extensively on art, going well beyond the limits of his native Europe. His conviction that the vanguard in Latin America lay in Mexican Muralism (Orozco, Rivera and Siqueiros) changed after his trip to Buenos Aires in 1958. After visiting the studios of several Argentine artists in the company of the young Director of the Museum of Modern Art of Buenos Aires Rafael Squirru, Malraux declared the new vanguard to lie in Argentina's new artistic movements. Squirru, a poet-critic who became Cultural Director of the OAS in Washington, D.C., during the 1960s, was the last to interview Edward Hopper before his death, contributing to a revival of interest in the American artist.\n\nIn the 1940s there were not only few galleries (The Art of This Century) but also few critics who were willing to follow the work of the New York Vanguard. There were also a few artists with a literary background, among them Robert Motherwell and Barnett Newman who functioned as critics as well.\n\nAlthough New York and the world were unfamiliar with the New York avant-garde, by the late 1940s most of the artists who have become household names today had their well established patron critics. Clement Greenberg advocated Jackson Pollock and the color field painters like Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb and Hans Hofmann. Harold Rosenberg seemed to prefer the action painters such as Willem de Kooning and Franz Kline. Thomas B. Hess, the managing editor of \"ARTnews\", championed Willem de Kooning.\n\nThe new critics elevated their protégés by casting other artists as \"followers\" or ignoring those who did not serve their promotional goal. As an example, in 1958, Mark Tobey \"became the first American painter since Whistler (1895) to win top prize at the Biennale of Venice. New York's two leading art magazines were not interested. \"Arts\" mentioned the historic event only in a news column and \"Art News\" (Managing editor: Thomas B. Hess) ignored it completely. \"The New York Times\" and \"Life\" printed feature articles\".\n\nBarnett Newman, a late member of the Uptown Group wrote catalogue forewords and reviews and by the late 1940s became an exhibiting artist at Betty Parsons Gallery. His first solo show was in 1948. Soon after his first exhibition, Barnett Newman remarked in one of the Artists' Session at Studio 35: \"We are in the process of making the world, to a certain extent, in our own image\". Utilizing his writing skills, Newman fought every step of the way to reinforce his newly established image as an artist and to promote his work. An example is his letter to Sidney Janis on 9 April 1955: \n\nThe person thought to have had most to do with the promotion of this style was a New York Trotskyist, Clement Greenberg. As long time art critic for the \"Partisan Review\" and \"The Nation\", he became an early and literate proponent of Abstract Expressionism. Artist Robert Motherwell, well-heeled, joined Greenberg in promoting a style that fit the political climate and the intellectual rebelliousness of the era.\n\nClement Greenberg proclaimed Abstract Expressionism and Jackson Pollock in particular as the epitome of aesthetic value. Greenberg supported Pollock's work on formalistic grounds as simply the best painting of its day and the culmination of an art tradition going back via Cubism and Cézanne to Monet, in which painting became ever \"purer\" and more concentrated in what was \"essential\" to it, the making of marks on a flat surface.\n\nJackson Pollock's work has always polarised critics. Harold Rosenberg spoke of the transformation of painting into an existential drama in Pollock's work, in which \"what was to go on the canvas was not a picture but an event\". \"The big moment came when it was decided to paint 'just to paint'. The gesture on the canvas was a gesture of liberation from value—political, aesthetic, moral.\"\n\nOne of the most vocal critics of Abstract Expressionism at the time was \"New York Times\" art critic John Canaday. Meyer Schapiro and Leo Steinberg were also important postwar art historians who voiced support for Abstract Expressionism. During the early to mid sixties younger art critics Michael Fried, Rosalind Krauss and Robert Hughes added considerable insights into the critical dialectic that continues to grow around Abstract Expressionism.\n\nFeminist art criticism emerged in the 1970s from the wider feminist movement as the critical examination of both visual representations of women in art and art produced by women. It continues to be a major field of art criticism.\n\nArt critics today work not only in print media and in specialist art magazines as well as newspapers. Art critics appear also on the internet, TV, and radio, as well as in museums and galleries. Many are also employed in universities or as art educators for museums. Art critics curate exhibitions and are frequently employed to write exhibition catalogues. Art critics have their own organisation, a UNESCO non-governmental organisation, called the International Association of Art Critics which has around 76 national sections and a political non-aligned section for refugees and exiles.\n\nSince the early 21st century, online art critical websites and art blogs have cropped up around the world to add their voices to the art world. Many of these writers use social media resources like Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and Google+ to introduce readers to their opinions about art criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21084897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21084897", "title": "Artist's portfolio", "text": "Artist's portfolio\n\nAn artist's portfolio is an edited collection of their best artwork intended to showcase an artist's style or method of work. A portfolio is used by artists to show employers their versatility by showing different samples of current work. Typically, the work reflects an artist's best work or a depth in one specific area of work.\n\nHistorically, portfolios were printed out and placed into a book. With the increased use of the internet and email, however, there are now websites that host online portfolios that are available to a wider audience. Sometimes an artist's portfolio can be referred to as a lookbook.\n\nA photography portfolio can focus on a single subject. It can be a collection of photographs taken with a certain type of camera, in one geographic area, of one person or a group of people, only black & white or sepia photos, a special event, etc.\n\nMany photographers use portfolios to show their best work when looking for jobs in the photography industry. For example, wedding photographers may put together a book of their best wedding photos to show to engaged couples who are looking for a wedding photographer. Photojournalists may take a collection of their best freelance work with them when looking for a job.\n\nAn artist design book is a collection of photographs meant to show off a model, photographer, style, or clothing line. Sometimes they are made to compile the looks of other people such as a celebrity, politician or socialite. This is an especially popular term with fashion bloggers.\n\nArtist design books, or ADBs, in their online form, can be described as \"fashion diaries\" because bloggers are constantly updating them on a daily or weekly basis. \n\nIt is common for stores or clothing designers to use an ADB to show off products. They may include photos of multiple types of clothes, shoes and other accessories from a season or line.\n"}
{"id": "16225929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16225929", "title": "Bezalel school", "text": "Bezalel school\n\nThe Bezalel school was an art movement in Palestine in the late Ottoman and British Mandate periods. Named for the Bezalel Art School, predecessor of the Bezalel Academy of Art and Design, it has been described as \"a fusion of oriental art and Jugendstil.\"\n\nThe Bezalel school artists blended varied strands of surroundings, tradition and innovationin paintings and craft objects that invoked biblical themes, Islamic design and European traditions in their effort to carve out a distinctive style of Jewish art for the new nation planned in the ancient Jewish homeland.\nThe works of art created by the group contributed significantly to the creation of a distinctive Israeli national culture.\n\nThe founder of the school was Boris Schatz, who left his position as head of the Royal Academy of Arts in Sofia, Bulgaria, to make aliyah 1906 and established an academy for Jewish arts in Jerusalem. The artists were Zionist immigrants from Europe and the Middle East, with all the psychological and social upheaval that this implies. The movement developed a distinctive style combining Biblical and Zionist subjects with art nouveau, symbolism and traditional Persian and Syrian artistry.\n\nThe Bezalel School produced decorative art objects in a wide range of materials: silver, leather, wood, brass and fabric. While the artists and designers were European-trained, the craftsmen who executed the works were often members of the Yemenite Jewish community, which had a long tradition of craftsmanship in precious metals, and began to make aliyah about 1880. In Yemen, filigree jewelry making was a respected profession among the Jews, with cultural as well as religious applications. Yemenite Jewish silversmiths worked primarily with silver, creating pieces by hand using traditional methods. Yemenite immigrants wearing colorful traditional costumes were also frequent subjects of Bezalel School artists.\n\nLeading members of the school were Boris Schatz, E. M. Lilien, Ya'akov Stark, Meir Gur-Aryeh, Ze'ev Raban, Jacob Eisenberg, Jacob Steinhardt, Shmuel Ben David, and Hermann Struck.\n\nThe artists produced not only paintings and etchings, but objects sold as Judaica and souvenirs. In 1915, \"The New York Times\" praised the “Exquisite examples of filigree work, copper inlay, carving in ivory and in wood,” in a touring exhibit.\n\nIn the metalwork Moorish patterns predominated, and the damascene work, in particular, showed both artistic feeling and skill in execution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7096766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7096766", "title": "Birmingham Group (artists)", "text": "Birmingham Group (artists)\n\nThe Birmingham Group, sometimes called the Birmingham School, was an informal collective of painters and craftsmen associated with the Arts and Crafts Movement, that worked in Birmingham, England in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. All of its members studied or taught at the Birmingham School of Art after the reorganisation of its teaching methods by Edward R. Taylor in the 1880s, and it was the School that formed the group's primary focus. Members of the group also overlapped with other more formal organisations, including the Birmingham Guild of Handicraft, the Ruskin Pottery and the Bromsgrove Guild of Applied Arts.\n\nThe Group formed one of the last outposts of late Romanticism in the visual arts, and an important link between the last of the Pre-Raphaelites and the new Slade Symbolists.\n\nThey began to form in an informal manner in the 1890s. Many were later to become teachers in Birmingham (especially the great Birmingham Municipal School of Art under Edward R. Taylor), and this meant that the Edward Burne-Jones style influenced all those who studied at the Birmingham art schools. Many were also heavily influenced by the ideas and practices of John Ruskin and William Morris, and had indeed personally known those men. Several had undertaken work for the Kelmscott Press, with Charles March Gere producing the famous frontispiece to \"News from Nowhere\". Many, unable to support themselves only through their art, also became fine crafts makers as well as teachers.\n\nThere was initially no formal membership, but during the 1930s they were known to have had a membership secretary.\n\nSome of their members later became part of the Birmingham Surrealists group of artists, thus carrying to English Surrealism the rich vein of Romantic concern with emotional states in pictures, with myth and fantasy, with visions, and with a \"natural supernaturalist\" experience conveyed through art. The Birmingham Surrealists had made contact with the London Surrealist Group around 1940 and ex Birmingham Group members such as Emmy Bridgwater exhibited at the International Surrealist show in Paris in 1947. (See: Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery, \"Surrealism in Birmingham: 1935–1954\" (2001).\n\nThe Fine Art Society held an extensive exhibition of Birmingham Group works in 1969. The galleries of the Birmingham Group's works formed a keystone of the major \"The Last Romantics\" exhibition at the Barbican in 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17464348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17464348", "title": "Bison Licking Insect Bite", "text": "Bison Licking Insect Bite\n\nBison Licking Insect Bite is a prehistoric carving from the Upper Paleolithic, found at Abri de la Madeleine near Tursac in Dordogne, France, the type-site of the Magdalenian culture, which produced many fine small carvings in antler or bone.\n\nCreated sometime between 20,000 and 12,000 BP (15,000 BP according to the museum), it was formerly in the Musee des Antiquites Nationales, St. Germain-en-Laye, but has been transferred to the expanded National Museum of Prehistory in Les Eyzies-de-Tayac-Sireuil that opened in 2004, not far from its findspot. It is a carved and engraved fragment of a spear-thrower made of reindeer antler. It depicts the figure of a bison, of the now extinct species steppe wisent (\"bison priscus\") with its head turned around and showing its tongue extended. It is thought the spear-thrower was broken into roughly its present shape before the carving was made from the fragment, hence the need to show the turned-back head of the animal in order to fit the existing structure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "787669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=787669", "title": "Caravaggisti", "text": "Caravaggisti\n\nThe Caravaggisti (or the \"Caravagesques\") were stylistic followers of the 16th-century Italian Baroque painter Caravaggio. His influence on the new Baroque style that eventually emerged from Mannerism was profound. Caravaggio never established a workshop as most other painters did, and thus had no school to spread his techniques. Nor did he ever set out his underlying philosophical approach to art, the psychological realism which can only be deduced from his surviving work. But it can be seen directly or indirectly in the work of Rubens, Jusepe de Ribera, Bernini, and Rembrandt. Famous while he lived, Caravaggio himself was forgotten almost immediately after his death. Many of his paintings were reascribed to his followers, such as \"The Taking of Christ\", which was attributed to the Dutch painter Gerrit van Honthorst until 1990. It was only in the 20th century that his importance to the development of Western art was rediscovered. In the 1920s Roberto Longhi once more placed him in the European tradition: \"Ribera, Vermeer, La Tour and Rembrandt could never have existed without him. And the art of Delacroix, Courbet and Manet would have been utterly different\". The influential Bernard Berenson stated: \"With the exception of Michelangelo, no other Italian painter exercised so great an influence.\"\n\nAt the height of his popularity in Rome during the late 1590s and early 17th century, Caravaggio's dramatic new style influenced many of his peers in the Roman art world. The first Caravaggisti included Mario Minniti, Giovanni Baglione (although his Caravaggio phase was short-lived), Leonello Spada and Orazio Gentileschi. In the next generation there were Carlo Saraceni, Bartolomeo Manfredi and Orazio Borgianni as well as anonymous masters such as the Master of the Gamblers. Gentileschi, despite being considerably older, was the only one of these artists to live much beyond 1620, and ended up as court painter to Charles I of England. His daughter Artemisia Gentileschi was also close to Caravaggio, and one of the most gifted of the movement. Yet in Rome and in Italy it was not Caravaggio, but the influence of Annibale Carracci, blending elements from the High Renaissance and Lombard realism, which ultimately triumphed. Other artists active in Rome, worth mentioning, include Angelo Caroselli, Pier Francesco Mola, Tommaso Salini and Francesco Buoneri. Giacinto Brandi was active mainly in Rome and Naples. Dutch painter David de Haen was active in Rome between 1615 and 1622.\nIn May 1606 after the killing of Ranuccio Tomassoni, Caravaggio fled to Naples with a death sentence on his head. While there he completed several commissions, two major ones being the \"Madonna of the Rosary\", and \"The Seven Works of Mercy\". His work had a profound effect on the local artists and his brief stay in Naples produced a notable school of Neapolitan Caravaggisti, including Battistello Caracciolo, Bernardo Cavallino, Carlo Sellitto, Massimo Stanzione, Francesco Guarino, Andrea Vaccaro, Cesare Fracanzano and Antonio de Bellis. Giacinto Brandi was active mainly in Rome and Naples. The Caravaggisti movement there ended with a terrible outbreak of plague in 1656, but at the time Naples was a possession of Spain and the influence of Caravaggism had already spread there.\nMarco Antonio Bassetti is known to have been in Rome in 1616, and may have arrived there two years earlier. In Rome he came under the influence of the paintings of Caravaggio and Orazio Borgianni. On his return to Verona he painted a St. Peter and Saints for the church of San Tomaso and a Coronation of the Virgin for Sant' Anastasia. He died from the plague in Verona in 1630. \n\nBernardo Strozzi, born and mainly active in Genoa and later Venice, is considered a principal founder of the Venetian Baroque style. In the 1620s Strozzi gradually abandoned his early Mannerist style in favor of a more personal style characterized by a new naturalism derived from the work of Caravaggio and his followers. The Caravaggist style of painting had been brought to Genoa both by Domenico Fiasella, after his return from Rome in 1617–18, and by followers of Caravaggio who spent time working in the city.\n\nItalian painter Biagio Manzoni was active in Faenza. Italian painter from Reggio Emilia Bartolomeo Schedoni, Daniele Crespi from Milan and Luca Cambiasi, also known as Luca Cambiaso and Luca Cangiagio, the leading artist in Genoa in the 16th century, often depicted brilliantly lit figures set against a dark background. Felice Boselli, active in Piacenza, used contrast Caravaggisti lighting for his still-lifes. Tanzio da Varallo (or simply il Tanzio) was active mainly in Lombardy and Piedmont, including the Sacro Monte at Varallo Sesia, where he worked contemporaneously with Pier Francesco Mazzucchelli (il Morazzone). The Italian painter and engraver Bernardino Mei worked in his native Siena and in Rome, finding patronage above all in the Chigi family.\n\nPietro Ricchi (or il Lucchesino), born in Lucca, also often depicted brilliantly lit figures set against a dark background (see St. Sebastian).\n\nMario Minniti was an Italian artist active in Sicily after 1606. He, at the age of 16, even posed for Caravaggio's painting Boy with a Basket of Fruit.\n\nThe Netherlands Institute for Art History lists 128 artists labelled \"Caravaggisten\". Dutch painter David de Haen was active in Rome between 1615 and 1622. Another artist worth mentioning is Paulus Bor, who initially painted rather Caravaggisti-like history paintings, but his works fast became marked by a classicism related to that of his townsman van Campen. Abraham Lambertsz van den Tempel is worth mentioning for his realism and contrasting lighting. Flemish born painter Frans Badens was active in Amsterdam. \n\nIn the early 17th century Catholic artists from the Netherlands travelled to Rome as students and were profoundly influenced by the work of Caravaggio. On their return to the north this group, known as the \"Utrecht Caravaggisti\", had a short-lived but influential flowering in the 1620s among painters like Hendrick ter Brugghen, Gerrit van Honthorst, Andries Both and Dirck van Baburen. The brief flourishing of Utrecht Caravaggism ended around 1630, when major artists had either died, as in the case of Baburen and Terbrugghen, or had changed style, like van Honthorst's shift to portraiture and history scenes informed by the Flemish tendencies popularized by Rubens and his followers. In the following generation the effects of Caravaggio, although attenuated, are to be seen in the work of Vermeer, Rembrandt, and Gerrit Dou's \"niche paintings\".\n\nRubens was likely one of the first Flemish artists to be influenced by Caravaggio. During the period 1600-1608, Rubens resided in Italy. He settled in Mantua at the court of Duke Vincenzo I Gonzaga but also spent time in Rome. During his stay in Rome in 1601 he became acquainted with Caravaggio’s work. He later made a copy of Caravagio's \"Entombment of Christ\" and recommended his patron, the Duke of Mantua, to purchase \"The Death of the Virgin\" (Louvre). Rubens was after his return to Antwerp instrumental in the acquisition of \"The Madonna of the Rosary\" (Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna) for the St. Paul's Church in Antwerp. During his stay in Italy Rubens broadened his interest in Caravaggio’s work to include the 1606 \"Supper at Emmaus in Milan\" (Pinacoteca di Brera) and the 1600 \"The Calling of St Matthew\" as well as the more recent work in the Santa Maria in Vallicella and the Basilica of Sant'Agostino. Although some of this interest in Caravaggio is reflected in his drawings during his Italian residence, it was only after his return to Antwerp in 1608 that his works show openly Caravaggesque traits such as in the \"\" (1608-1609) (Courtauld Institute of Art). However, the influence of Caravaggio on Rubens’ work would be less important than that of Raphael, Correggio, Barocci and the Venetians. Artists, who were influenced by Rubens, such as Pieter van Mol, Gaspar de Crayer and Willem Jacob Herreyns, also used certain stark realism and strong contrasts of light and shadow, common to Caravaggisti style. \n\nRubens' contemporary Abraham Janssens was another Flemish painter who travelled to Italy (from 1597 to 1602) where he became acquainted with the work of Caravaggio. His work after his return to Antwerp shows the influence of Caravaggio. The composition \"\" of 1609 derives its expressive power from the use of strong contrasts of light and shadow (chiaroscuro) as was pioneered by Caravaggio.\n\nIt is mainly the Flemish artists from the generation after Rubens coming on the art scene in the 1620s who were most influenced by Caravaggio. It can even be said that there was a Caravaggist craze in Flanders from about 1620 to 1640. The artists are often referred to as the Ghent Caravaggisti and the Antwerp Caravaggisti after the city in which they were principally active. There is, however, no discernible stylistic distinction between these two movements other than individual ones. Among the Ghent Caravaggisti can be listed Jan Janssens, Melchior de la Mars and Antoon van den Heuvel. The list of Antwerp Caravaggisti is significantly longer reflecting the importance of this city as the pre-eminent artistic centre of Flanders. They include Theodoor Rombouts, Gerard Seghers, Jan Cossiers, Adam de Coster and Jacques de l'Ange.\n\nWhat most of these artists shared in common is that they likely visited Italy where they had first-hand contact with the work of Caravaggio or his Italian and Dutch followers. The influence of Caravaggio and his followers on their work can be seen in the use of dramatic light effects and expressive gestures as well as the new subject matter such as card sharps, fortune tellers, the denial of St Peter, etc. Some of the artists focused on certain aspects of Caravaggio's oeuvre. For instance, Adam de Coster was referred to as the \"Pictor Noctium\" (painter of the nights) because of his preference for the use of stark chiaroscuro and the repeated motif of half-length figures illuminated by a candle which is covered.\n\nMany of these artists such as Rombouts, Cossiers and Seghers later abandoned their strict adherence to the Caravaggist style and subject matter and struck out in different directions often under the influence of the older generation of Flemish artists who had such a dominant influence on Flemish art in the 17th century, i.e. Rubens and van Dyck.\n\nOne of the first French artists to studio in Rome during the Caravaggio Years was Jean LeClerc, who studied under Saraceni during the early 17th century. Simon Vouet spent an extensive period of time in Italy, from 1613 to 1627. His patrons included the Barberini family, Cassiano dal Pozzo, Paolo Giordano Orsini and Vincenzo Giustiniani. He also visited other parts of Italy: Venice; Bologna, (where the Carracci family had their academy); Genoa, (where from 1620 to 1622, he worked for the Doria princes); and Naples. He absorbed what he saw and distilled it in his painting: Caravaggio's dramatic lighting; Italian Mannerism; Paolo Veronese's color and \"di sotto in su\" or foreshortened perspective; and the art of Carracci, Guercino, Lanfranco and Guido Reni. Vouet's success in Rome led to his election as president of the Accademia di San Luca in 1624. Despite his success in Rome, Vouet returned to France in 1627. Vouet's new style was distinctly Italian, importing the Italian Baroque style into France. Other French artists enamored by the new style included Valentin de Boulogne, who was living in Rome by 1620, and studied under Vouet and later Boulognes pupil Nicolas Tournier.\n\nGeorges de La Tour is assumed to have travelled either to Italy or the Netherlands early in his career. His paintings reflect the influence of Caravaggio, but this probably reached him through the Dutch \"Caravaggisti\" and other Northern (French and Dutch) contemporaries. In particular, La Tour is often compared to the Dutchman Hendrick Terbrugghen. Louis Finson, also known as Ludovicus Finsonius, was a Flemish Baroque painter, who also worked in France.\nFrancisco Ribalta became among the first followers in Spain of the tenebrist style. It is unclear if he directly visited either Rome or Naples, where Caravaggio's style had many adherents, although through its Naples connection Spain was probably already exposed to Caravaggisim by the early 17th century. His son Juan Ribalta, Vicente Castelló and Jusepe de Ribera are said to have been his pupils, although it is entirely possible that Ribera acquired his tenebrism when he moved to Italy. The style garnered a number of adherents in Spain, and was to influence the Baroque or Golden Age Spanish painters, especially Zurbarán, Velázquez and Murillo. Even the art of still life in Spain, the bodegón was often painted in a similar stark and austere style. Orazio Borgianni signed a petition to begin an Italianate academy of painting in Spain and executed a series of nine paintings for the Convento de Portacoeli, Valladolid, where they remain. Giovanni Battista Crescenzi was an Italian painter and architect of the early-Baroque period, active in Rome and Spain, where he helped decorate the pantheon of the Spanish kings at El Escorial. He rose to prominence as an artist during the reign of Pope Paul V, but by 1617 had moved to Madrid, and from 1620 on, he was active in El Escorial. Philip III of Spain awarded him the title of Marchese de la Torre, Knight of Santiago. His pupil Bartolomeo Cavarozzi was active in Spain.\n"}
{"id": "6309363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6309363", "title": "Centro de Arte y Comunicación", "text": "Centro de Arte y Comunicación\n\nThe Centro de Arte y Comunicación (CAyC) was an arts organization based in Buenos Aires, Argentina, that was instrumental in creating an international arts movement based on the ideas of systems art within conceptual art.\n\nIn August 1968, CAyC was established as a multidisciplinary workshop by Víctor Grippo, Jacques Bedel, Luis Fernando Benedit, Alfredo Portillos, Clorindo Testa, Jorge Glusberg, and Jorge González. Jorge Glusberg was the main leader associated with CAyC.\n\nIn 1971, the \"Grupo de los Trece\" was created by Polish theater director Jerzy Grotowski. There were 13 artists who made up the group: Jacques Bedel, Luis Fernándo Benedit, Gregorio Dujovny, Carlos Ginsburg, Jorge Glusberg, Victor Grippo, Jorge González Mir, Vicente Lucas Marotta, Luis Pazos, Alfredo Portillos, Juan Carlos Romero, Julio Teich, and Horacio Zabala. Additional artists who later joined were Leopoldo Maler and Clorindo Testa. In 1975, the group were formally named the \"Grupo CAyC.\"\n\nThe work was centered around the concept of \"Arte de Sistemas\" or Systemic Art.\n\nIn 1972, the \"Scuola de Altos Estudios del CAyC\" aka \"Escuela de Altos Estudios\" / \"Escuela de Altos Estudios del Centro de Arte y Comunicación\" was founded.\n\nIn the seventies CAyC became an international center for the Pop art-culture and the famous Museo de Arquitectura.\n\nWell-known teachers at CAyC have included Justus Dahinden and Mario Botta.\n\nFrom 1968 until his death in early 2012, Jorge Glusberg was the Director of CAyC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27714014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27714014", "title": "Chadam", "text": "Chadam\n\nChadam is an animated web series by artist Alex Pardee based on characters he created for a number of The Used's album artwork and distributed by The WB and Eye Suck Ink. \"Chadam\" is produced by Jason \"Jace\" Hall of HDFILMS Inc. The short series premiered June 15, 2010 on TheWB.com. The WB and its children's network, Kids WB! is closed, but the website is still open. \"Chadam\" appeared on the cover of \"Lies for the Liars\". The episodes are nearly 4 to 5 minutes long. iTunes has the episodes in a collection called \"Chadam, the Complete Series\". iTunes episodes are nearly the 13 minute mark because two short episodes are built into one, for example, \"Cut from Cardboard\" and \"Ripley, Believe It or Not\" are put together as \"The Awakening\".\n\nHall pushed the boundaries of traditional filmmaking by using a computer game engine, Unreal Engine 3, in order to meet the challenge of animating Pardee's surreal work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99260", "title": "Classicism", "text": "Classicism\n\nClassicism, in the arts, refers generally to a high regard for a classical period, classical antiquity in the Western tradition, as setting standards for taste which the classicists seek to emulate. The art of classicism typically seeks to be formal and restrained: of the \"Discobolus\" Sir Kenneth Clark observed, \"if we object to his restraint and compression we are simply objecting to the classicism of classic art. A violent emphasis or a sudden acceleration of rhythmic movement would have destroyed those qualities of balance and completeness through which it retained until the present century its position of authority in the restricted repertoire of visual images.\" Classicism, as Clark noted, implies a canon of widely accepted ideal forms, whether in the Western canon that he was examining in \"The Nude\" (1956), or the literary Chinese classics or Chinese art, where the revival of classic styles is also a recurring feature.\n\nClassicism is a force which is often present in post-medieval European and European influenced traditions; however, some periods felt themselves more connected to the classical ideals than others, particularly the Age of Enlightenment, when Neoclassicism was an important movement in the visual arts.\n\nClassicism is a specific genre of philosophy, expressing itself in literature, architecture, art, and music, which has Ancient Greek and Roman sources and an emphasis on society. It was particularly expressed in the Neoclassicism of the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nClassicism is a recurrent tendency in the Late Antique period, and had a major revival in Carolingian and Ottonian art. There was another, more durable revival in the Italian renaissance when the fall of Byzantium and rising trade with the Islamic cultures brought a flood of knowledge about, and from, the antiquity of Europe. Until that time, the identification with antiquity had been seen as a continuous history of Christendom from the conversion of Roman Emperor Constantine I. Renaissance classicism introduced a host of elements into European culture, including the application of mathematics and empiricism into art, humanism, literary and depictive realism, and formalism. Importantly it also introduced Polytheism, or \"paganism\", and the juxtaposition of ancient and modern.\n\nThe classicism of the Renaissance led to, and gave way to, a different sense of what was \"classical\" in the 16th and 17th centuries. In this period, classicism took on more overtly structural overtones of orderliness, predictability, the use of geometry and grids, the importance of rigorous discipline and pedagogy, as well as the formation of schools of art and music. The court of Louis XIV was seen as the center of this form of classicism, with its references to the gods of Olympus as a symbolic prop for absolutism, its adherence to axiomatic and deductive reasoning, and its love of order and predictability.\n\nThis period sought the revival of classical art forms, including Greek drama and music. Opera, in its modern European form, had its roots in attempts to recreate the combination of singing and dancing with theatre thought to be the Greek norm. Examples of this appeal to classicism included Dante, Petrarch, and Shakespeare in poetry and theatre. Tudor drama, in particular, modeled itself after classical ideals and divided works into Tragedy and Comedy. Studying Ancient Greek became regarded as essential for a well-rounded education in the liberal arts.\n\nThe Renaissance also explicitly returned to architectural models and techniques associated with Greek and Roman antiquity, including the golden rectangle as a key proportion for buildings, the classical orders of columns, as well as a host of ornament and detail associated with Greek and Roman architecture. They also began reviving plastic arts such as bronze casting for sculpture, and used the classical naturalism as the foundation of drawing, painting and sculpture.\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment identified itself with a vision of antiquity which, while continuous with the classicism of the previous century, was shaken by the physics of Sir Isaac Newton, the improvements in machinery and measurement, and a sense of liberation which they saw as being present in the Greek civilization, particularly in its struggles against the Persian Empire. The ornate, organic, and complexly integrated forms of the baroque were to give way to a series of movements that regarded themselves expressly as \"classical\" or \"neo-classical\", or would rapidly be labelled as such. For example, the painting of Jacques-Louis David was seen as an attempt to return to formal balance, clarity, manliness, and vigor in art.\n\nThe 19th century saw the classical age as being the precursor of academicism, including such movements as uniformitarianism in the sciences, and the creation of rigorous categories in artistic fields. Various movements of the romantic period saw themselves as classical revolts against a prevailing trend of emotionalism and irregularity, for example the Pre-Raphaelites. By this point, classicism was old enough that previous classical movements received revivals; for example, the Renaissance was seen as a means to combine the organic medieval with the orderly classical. The 19th century continued or extended many classical programs in the sciences, most notably the Newtonian program to account for the movement of energy between bodies by means of exchange of mechanical and thermal energy.\n\nThe 20th century saw a number of changes in the arts and sciences. Classicism was used both by those who rejected, or saw as temporary, transfigurations in the political, scientific, and social world and by those who embraced the changes as a means to overthrow the perceived weight of the 19th century. Thus, both pre-20th century disciplines were labelled \"classical\" and modern movements in art which saw themselves as aligned with light, space, sparseness of texture, and formal coherence.\n\nIn the present day philosophy classicism is used as a term particularly in relation to Apollonian over Dionysian impulses in society and art; that is a preference for rationality, or at least rationally guided catharsis, over emotionalism.\n\nClassicism in the theatre was developed by 17th century French playwrights from what they judged to be the rules of Greek classical theatre, including the \"Classical unities\" of time, place and action, found in the \"Poetics\" of Aristotle.\n\n\nExamples of classicist playwrights are Pierre Corneille, Jean Racine and Molière. In the period of Romanticism, Shakespeare, who conformed to none of the classical rules, became the focus of French argument over them, in which the Romantics eventually triumphed; Victor Hugo was among the first French playwrights to break these conventions.\n\nThe influence of these French rules on playwrights in other nations is debatable. In the English theatre, Restoration playwrights such as William Wycherly and William Congreve would have been familiar with them. William Shakespeare and his contemporaries did not follow this Classicist philosophy, in particular since they were not French and also because they wrote several decades prior to their establishment. Those of Shakespeare's plays that seem to display the unities, such as \"The Tempest\", probably indicate a familiarity with actual models from classical antiquity.\n\nClassicism in architecture developed during the Italian Renaissance, notably in the writings and designs of Leon Battista Alberti and the work of Filippo Brunelleschi. It places emphasis on symmetry, proportion, geometry and the regularity of parts as they are demonstrated in the architecture of Classical antiquity and in particular, the architecture of Ancient Rome, of which many examples remained.\n\nOrderly arrangements of columns, pilasters and lintels, as well as the use of semicircular arches, hemispherical domes, niches and aedicules replaced the more complex proportional systems and irregular profiles of medieval buildings. This style quickly spread to other Italian cities and then to France, Germany, England, Russia and elsewhere.\n\nIn the 16th century, Sebastiano Serlio helped codify the classical orders and Palladio's legacy evolved into the long tradition of Palladian architecture. Building off of these influences, the 17th-century architects Inigo Jones and Christopher Wren firmly established classicism in England.\n\nFor the development of classicism from the mid-18th-century onwards, see Neoclassical architecture.\n\n\nItalian Renaissance painting and sculpture are marked by their renewal of classical forms, motifs and subjects. In the 15th century Leon Battista Alberti was important in theorizing many of the ideas for painting that came to a fully realised product with Raphael's \"School of Athens\" during the High Renaissance. The themes continued largely unbroken into the 17th century, when artists such as Nicolas Poussin and Charles Le Brun represented of the more rigid classicism. Like Italian classicizing ideas in the 15th and 16th centuries, it spread through Europe in the mid to late 17th century.\n\nLater classicism in painting and sculpture from the mid-18th and 19th centuries is generally referred to as Neoclassicism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21011109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21011109", "title": "Combine painting", "text": "Combine painting\n\nA combine painting is an artwork that incorporates various objects into a painted canvas surface, creating a sort of hybrid between painting and sculpture. Items attached to paintings might include photographic images, clothing, newspaper clippings, ephemera or any number of three-dimensional objects. The term is most closely associated with the artwork of American artist Robert Rauschenberg (1925–2008) who coined the phrase to describe his own creations. Rauschenberg’s Combines explored the blurry boundaries between art and the everyday world. In addition, his cross-medium creations challenged the doctrine of medium specificity mentioned by modernist art critic Clement Greenberg. Frank Stella created a large body of paintings that recall the combine paintings of Robert Rauschenberg by juxtaposing a wide variety of surface and material in each work ultimately leading to Stella's sculpture and architecture of the 21st century.\n\nRauschenberg and his artist friend/flatmate Jasper Johns used to design window displays together for upscale retailers such as Tiffany's and Bonwit Teller in Manhattan before they became better established as artists. They shared ideas about art as well as career strategies. Paul Schimmel of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art described Rauschenberg's \"Combine paintings\" as \"some of the most influential, poetic and revolutionary works in the history of American art.\" But they've also been called \"ramshackle hybrids between painting and sculpture, stage prop and three-dimensional scrap-book assemblage\" according to \"The Guardian\"s critic Adrian Searle. Searle believed the \"different elements of the Combines have been described as having no more relation than the different stories that vie for attention on a newspaper page.\" Jasper Johns, as well, used similar techniques; in at least one painting, Johns attached a paintbrush right inside his painting.\n\nExamples of Rauschenberg's \"Combine paintings\" include \"Bed\" (1955), \"Canyon\" (1959), and the free-standing \"Monogram\" (1955–1959). Rauschenberg's works mostly incorporated two-dimensional materials held together with \"splashes and drips of paint\" with occasional 3-D objects. Critic John Perreault wrote \"The Combines are both painting and sculpture–or, some purists would say, neither.\" Perreault liked them since they were memorable, photogenic, and could \"stick in the mind\" as well as \"surprise and keep on surprising.\" Rauschenberg added stuffed birds on his 1955 work \"Satellite\", which featured a stuffed pheasant \"patrolling its top edge.\" In another work, he added a ladder. His Combine \"Broadcast\", featuring three radios blaring at once, was a \"melange of paint, grids, newspaper clips and fabric snippets.\" According to one source, his \"Broadcast\" had three radios playing simultaneously, which produced a sort of irritating static, so that one of the work's owners, at one point, replaced the \"noise\" with tapes of actual programs when guests visited. Rauschenberg's \"Bed\" had a pillow attached to a patchwork quilt with paint splashed over it. The idea was to promote immediacy.\n\nThe prevailing theme of Rauschenberg's \"combine\" paintings is \"nonmeaning, the absurd, or antiart.\" In this regard the combine paintings relate to Pop art and their much earlier predecessor Dada.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Rauschenberg's Combines sold from $400 to $7,500. But their value shot upwards. In 1999, the Museum of Modern Art, which had balked at buying Rauschenberg's work decades earlier, spent $12 million to buy his \"Factum II\" which the artist made in 1957. Rauschenberg's \"Rebus\" was valued in 1991 at $7.3 million. A three-panel work created in 1955 that takes its name from the Latin for a \"puzzle of images and words\", it \"builds a narrative from seemingly nonsensical sequences of found images and abstract elements,\" according to \"The New York Times\". MOMA bought \"Rebus\" in 2005. Rauschenberg reportedly said that the images in \"Rebus\" jostle with each other \"like pedestrians on a street.\" Rauschenberg's \"Photograph\", a Combine painting from 1959, was valued at $10.7 million by Sotheby's in 2008. His work \"Bantam\" sold for $2.6 million in 2009. In 2008, \"The New York Times\" art critic Roberta Smith, who described Combines as \"multimedia hybrids\", wrote MOMA was \"Rauschenberg Central\" because it owned over 300 of his works. The Whitney owned 60 Rauschenbergs. In 2012, \"Canyon\" was donated to MoMA by the children of Ileana Sonnabend as part of an IRS settlement that valued the work at $65 million.\n\n\"Canyon,\" one of Rauschenberg's most recognizable Combines, has been the subject of art historical debate revolving around the validity of reading Rauschenberg's work iconographically. Historian Kenneth Bendiner famously proposed \"Canyon\" as a playful recreation of a 1635 Rembrandt painting depicting the abduction of Ganymede, interpreting the suspended pillow as Ganymede's buttocks and the stuffed bald eagle as the form assumed by the Greek god Zeus. Other historians and critics, such as Joseph Branden have argued that searching for iconography in Rauschenberg's Combines is useless because it can be made to exist anywhere. Bendiner's interpretation is discredited for failing to account for compositional movement and for disregarding a number of elements within the work, for example the blue and red text in the center, in order to mould the interpretation to it.\n\nInterpretations of Rauschenberg's Combines vary from: a deeply personal and subjective collage of expression (often homoerotic), to a surface of indecipherable, or rather infinitely cipher-able, materials which challenge notions of painting, sculpture, reception, and chance, to a multivalent iconographic landscape that seems to resist fixed decoding in favor of a more open-ended play of meaning. Rauschenberg himself states \"I don't want a painting to be just an expression of my personality. I feel it ought to be much better than that … I’ve always felt as though, whatever I’ve used and whatever I’ve done, the method was always closer to a \"collaboration\" with materials than to any kind of conscious manipulation and control.\"\n\nMoira Roth links the Combines to Duchamp's indifferent attitude in art, arguing that the perceived density of the content, and the integration of mass media elements is a facade born out of the alienation and indifference experienced by the artist during the McCarthy Period. Jonathan Katz argues that underneath the impersonal and inexpressive appearance of his work is a secret homosexual code that can unlock some of the significance of Rauschenberg's work, but Ed Krčma points out the weakness of steering the analysis towards preconceived conclusions, especially since Rauschenberg's work is described as a poetry of infinite possibilities.\n\nMore recent interpretations of \"Canyon,\" reconsider the work in postmodern terms, claiming that the Combine works more like a human mind than a human eye; Fragmented scraps of images, news cutouts, found objects and paint interact in esoteric ways and more closely resemble a cerebral process than a 'traditional' image. Yve-Alain Bois calls the search for iconographic meaning in Rauschenberg's work misguided because it is too limiting. His art's \"lack of center\" is a statement in itself, and the infinite permutations of meaning that can result highlight the subjectivity of art reception that postmodernism explores.\n\nUnder U.S. law, \"Canyon\" can never be sold since it contains a stuffed bald eagle, violating the 1940 Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act as well as the 1918 Migratory Bird Treaty Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "33962158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33962158", "title": "Context art", "text": "Context art\n\nThe term Context art () was introduced through the seminal exhibition and an accompanying publication \"Kontext Kunst. The Art of the 90s\" curated by Peter Weibel at the Neue Galerie im Künstlerhaus Graz (Austria) in 1993 (02.10.–07.11.1993).\n\nBoth exhibition and publication aimed to establish grounds for recognizing a new form of artistic practice emerging in the early 1990s. The presentation displayed different approaches though all shared an interest in the use of methods of contextualization to reveal connections between the art works and their conditions of production, whether these were formal, social, or ideologically defined. Institutional critique, feminist positions, later also critiques of precarious economic conditions and issues of globalization, all closely related to social and political changes, became relevant subjects of artistic production.\n\n“It is no longer purely about critiquing the art system, but about critiquing reality and analyzing and creating social processes. In the ’90s, non-art contexts are being increasingly drawn into the art discourse. Artists are becoming autonomous agents of social processes, partisans of the real. The interaction between artists and social situations, between art and non-art contexts has led to a new art form, where both are folded together: Context art. The aim of this social construction of art is to take part in the social construction of reality.” \n\nIt might be due to the fact that the term was introduced under the German translation \"KontextKunst\" instead of \"Context Art\" or its likewise politically tended orientation (see Maria Lind’s reference), but it never spread far beyond Europe’s language based barriers. Instead vaguely similar strategies were labeled as \"Models of Participatory Practice\" in 1998 by Christian Kravagna’s attempt to define the field or the later appearing and quite moderate Relational Art based on the 2002 book \"Relational Aesthetics\" by Nicolas Bourriaud. \n\nThe accompanying catalog is described to document ”a wide-ranging exhibition designed to illustrate the emergence over the past decade of a new international art movement, .. “ featuring “… an anthology of 22 substantial essays (some reprinted) discussing from diverse perspectives the artistic issues and social and political themes that distinguish \"Context Art\" from related forms of conceptual and installation art…. “.\n\nFareed Armaly, Cosima von Bonin, Tom Burr, Clegg & Guttmann, Meg Cranston, Mark Dion, Peter Fend, Andrea Fraser, Inspection Medhermeneutics, Ronald Jones, Louise Lawler, Thomas Locher, Dorit Margreiter, Kasimir Malewitsch, Katrin von Maltzahn, Regina Möller, Reinhard Mucha, Christian Philipp Müller, Anton Olschwang, Hirsch Perlman, Dan Peterman, Adrian Piper, Mathias Poledna, Stephan Prina, Florian Pumhösl, Gerwald Rockenschaub, Julia Scher, Oliver Schwarz, Jason Simon, Rudolf Stingel, Lincoln Tobier, Olga Tschernyschewa, Christopher Williams, Peter Zimmermann, Heimo Zobernig \n"}
{"id": "674483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=674483", "title": "Creative industries", "text": "Creative industries\n\nThe creative industries refers to a range of economic activities which are concerned with the generation or exploitation of knowledge and information. They may variously also be referred to as the cultural industries (especially in Europe or the creative economy , and most recently they have been denominated as the Orange Economy in Latin America and the Caribbean (Buitrago & Duque 2013).\n\nHowkins' creative economy comprises advertising, architecture, art, crafts, design, fashion, film, music, performing arts, publishing, R&D, software, toys and games, TV and radio, and video games . Some scholars consider that education industry, including public and private services, is forming a part of creative industry. There remain, therefore, different definitions of the sector .\n\nThe creative industries have been seen to become increasingly important to economic well-being, proponents suggesting that \"human creativity is the ultimate economic resource\" , and that \"the industries of the twenty-first century will depend increasingly on the generation of knowledge through creativity and innovation\" .\n\nVarious commentators have provided varying suggestions on what activities to include in the concept of \"creative industries\" , and the name itself has become a contested issue – with significant differences and overlap between the terms \"creative industries\", \"cultural industries\" and \"creative economy\" .\n\nLash and Urry suggest that each of the creative industries has an \"irreducible core\" concerned with \"the exchange of finance for rights in intellectual property\", . This echoes the UK Government Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) definition which describes the creative industries as:\n\n\nTo this list John Howkins would add toys and games, also including the much broader area of research and development in science and technology . It has also been argued that gastronomy belongs in such a list.\n\nThe various fields of engineering do not appear on this list, that emerged from the DCMS reports. This was due, probably, to the fact that engineers occupy relevant positions in \"non-cultural\" corporations, performing activities of project, management, operation, maintenance, risk analysis and supervision, among others. However, historically and presently, several tasks of engineers can be regarded as highly creative, inventive and innovative. The contribution of engineering is represented by new products, processes and services.\n\nHesmondhalgh reduces the list to what he terms \"the core cultural industries\" of advertising and marketing, broadcasting, film, internet and music industries, print and electronic publishing, and video and computer games. His definition only includes those industries that create \"texts\"' or \"cultural artefacts\" and which engage in some form of industrial reproduction .\n\nThe DCMS list has proven influential, and many other nations have formally adopted it. It has also been criticised. It has been argued that the division into sectors obscures a divide between lifestyle business, non-profits, and larger businesses, and between those who receive state subsidies (e.g., film) and those who do not (e.g., computer games). The inclusion of the antiques trade often comes into question, since it does not generally involve production (except of reproductions and fakes). The inclusion of all computer services has also been questioned .\n\nSome areas, such as Hong Kong, have preferred to shape their policy around a tighter focus on copyright ownership in the value chain. They adopt the WIPO's classifications, which divide up the creative industries according to who owns the copyrights at various stages during the production and distribution of creative content.\n\nThe Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has denominated them for Latin America and the Caribbean as the Orange Economy which is defined as the \"group of linked activities through which ideas are transformed into cultural goods and services whose value is determined by intellectual property.\"\n\nOthers have suggested a distinction between those industries that are open to mass production and distribution (film and video; videogames; broadcasting; publishing), and those that are primarily craft-based and are meant to be consumed in a particular place and moment (visual arts; performing arts; cultural heritage).\n\nThe DCMS classifies enterprises and occupations as creative according to what the enterprise primarily produces, and what the worker primarily does. Thus, a company which produces records would be classified as belonging to the music industrial sector, and a worker who plays piano would be classified as a musician.\n\nThe primary purpose of this is to quantify – for example it can be used to count the number of firms, and the number of workers, creatively employed in any given location, and hence to identify places with particularly high concentrations of creative activities.\n\nIt leads to some complications which are not immediately obvious. For example, a security guard working for a music company would be classified as a creative employee, although not as creatively occupied.\n\nThe total number of creative employees is then calculated as the sum of:\n\n\nAccording to Caves (2000), creative industries are characterized by seven economic properties:\n\n\nThe properties described by Caves have been criticized for being too rigid (Towse, 2000). Not all creative workers are purely driven by 'art for art's sake'. The 'ars longa' property also holds for certain noncreative products (i.e., licensed products). The 'time flies' property also holds for large construction projects. Creative industries are therefore not unique, but they score generally higher on these properties relative to non-creative industries.\n\nThere is often a question about the boundaries between creative industries and the similar term of cultural industries. Cultural industries are best described as an adjunct-sector of the creative industries. Cultural industries include industries that focus on cultural tourism and heritage, museums and libraries, sports and outdoor activities, and a variety of 'way of life' activities that arguably range from local pet shows to a host of hobbyist concerns. Thus cultural industries are more concerned about delivering other kinds of value—including cultural wealth and social wealth—rather than primarily providing monetary value. (See also cultural institutions studies.)\n\nSome authors, such as the American economist Richard Florida, argue for a wider focus on the products of knowledge workers, and judge the 'creative class' (his own term) to include nearly all those offering professional knowledge-based services.\n\nFlorida's focus leads him to pay particular attention to the nature of the creative workforce. In a study of why particular US cities such as San Francisco seem to attract creative producers, Florida argues that a high proportion of workers from the 'creative class' provide a key input to creative production, which enterprises seek out. He seeks to quantitatively establish the importance of diversity and multiculturalism in the cities concerned, for example the existence of a significant public gay community, ethnic and religious variety, and tolerance. \n\nGlobally, Creative Industries excluding software and general scientific research and development are said to have accounted for around 4% of the world's economic output in 1999, which is the last year for which comprehensive figures are currently available. Estimates of the output corresponding to scientific Research and Development suggest that an additional 4-9% might be attributable to the sector if its definition is extended to include such activities, though the figures vary significantly between different countries.\n\nTaking the UK as an example, in the context of other sectors, the creative industries make a far more significant contribution to output than hospitality or utilities and deliver four times the output due to agriculture, fisheries and forestry. In terms of employment and depending on the definition of activities included, the sector is a major employer of between 4-6% of the UK's working population, though this is still significantly less than employment due to traditional areas of work such as retail and manufacturing.\n\nWithin the creative industries sector and again taking the UK as an example, the three largest sub-sectors are design, publishing, and television and radio. Together these account for around 75% of revenues and 50% of employment.\n\nThe complex supply chains in the creative industries sometimes make it challenging to calculate accurate figures for the gross value added by each sub-sector. This is particularly the case for the service-focused sub-sectors such as advertising, whereas it is more straightforward in product-focused sub-sectors such as crafts. Not surprisingly, perhaps, competition in product-focused areas tends to be more intense with a tendency to drive the production end of the supply chain to become a commodity business.\n\nThere may be a tendency for publicly funded creative industries development services to inaccurately estimate the number of creative businesses during the mapping process. There is also imprecision in nearly all tax code systems that determine a person's profession, since many creative people operate simultaneously in multiple roles and jobs. Both these factors mean that official statistics relating to the Creative Industries should be treated with caution.\n\nThe creative industries in Europe make a significant contribution to the EU economy, creating about 3% of EU GDP – corresponding to an annual market value of €500 billion – and employing about 6 million people. In addition, the sector plays a crucial role in fostering innovation, in particular for devices and networks. The EU records the second highest TV viewing figures globally, producing more films than any other region in the world. In that respect, the newly proposed 'Creative Europe' programme (July 2011) will help preserve cultural heritage while increasing the circulation of creative works inside and outside the EU. The programme will play a consequential role in stimulating cross border co-operation, promoting peer learning and making these sectors more professional. The Commission will then propose a financial instrument run by the European Investment Bank to provide debt and equity finance for cultural and creative industries. The role of the non-state actors within the governance regarding Medias will not be neglected anymore. Therefore, building a new approach extolling the crucial importance of a European level playing field industry may boost the adoption of policies aimed at developing a conducive environment, enabling European companies as well as citizens to use their imagination and creativity – both sources of innovation -, and therefore of competitiveness and sustainability. It supposes to tailor the regulatory and institutional frameworks in supporting private-public collaboration, in particular in the Medias sector. The EU therefore plans to develop clusters, financing instruments as well as foresight activities to support this sector. The European Commission wishes to assist European creators and audiovisual enterprises to develop new markets through the use of digital technology, and asks how policy-making can best help achieve this. A more entrepreneurial culture will have to take hold with a more positive attitude towards risk-taking, and a capacity to innovate anticipating future trends. Creativity plays an important role in human resource management as artists and creative professionals can think laterally. Moreover, new jobs requiring new skills created in the post-crisis economy should be supported by labour mobility to ensure that people are employed wherever their skills are needed.\n\nIn the introduction to a 2013 special issue of \"Work and Occupations\" on artists in the US workforce, the guest editors argue that by examining the work lives of artists, one can identify characteristics and actions that help both individual workers and policy makers adapt to changing economic conditions. Elizabeth Lingo and Steven Tepper cite multiple sources to suggest artists' skill sets allow them to \"work beyond existing markets and create entirely new opportunities for themselves and others\". Specifically, Lingo and Tepper suggest artistic workers are \"catalysts of change and innovation\" because they \"face special challenges managing ambiguity, developing and sustaining a relative identity, and forming community in the context of an individually based enterprise economy\" (2013). Because of these adaptive skills, the suggestion is that \"studying how artists cope with uncertainty and the factors that influence their success should be relevant for understanding these broader social and economic trends facing today's (and tomorrow's) workforce.\"\n\nThis view of artist-as-change-agent changes the questions researchers ask of creative economies. Old research questions would focus on topics like \"skills, work practices, contracts, wage differentials, employment incentives, formal credentials, employment pipelines, and labor flows of differentiated occupational categories\". Examples of new questions include:\n\nAs some first world countries struggle to compete in traditional markets such as manufacturing, many now see the creative industry as a key component in a new knowledge economy, capable perhaps of delivering urban regeneration, often through initiatives linked to exploitation of cultural heritage that leads to increased tourism. It is often argued that, in future, the ideas and imagination of countries like the United Kingdom will be their greatest asset; in support of this argument, a number of universities in the UK have started to offer creative entrepreneurship as a specific area for study and research. Indeed, UK government figures reveal that the UK's creative industries account for over a million jobs and brought in £112.5 billion to the UK economy (DCMS \"Creative Industries Mapping Document\" 2001), although the data sets underlying these figures are open to question.\n\nIn recent years, creative industries have become 'increasingly attractive to governments outside the developed world'. In 2005, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) XI High Level Panel on Creative Industries and Development commissioned several studies to identify challenges and opportunities facing the growth and development of creative industries in developing industries. As Cunningham \"et al.\" (2009) put it, 'the harnessing of creativity brings with it the potential of new wealth creation, the cultivation of local talent and the generation of creative capital, the development of new export markets, significant multiplier effects throughout the broader economy, the utilisation of information communication technologies and enhanced competitiveness in an increasingly global economy'. A key driver of interest in creative industries and development is the acknowledgement that the value of creative production resides in ideas and individual creativity, and developing countries have rich cultural traditions and pools of creative talent which lay a basic foundation for creative enterprises. Reflecting the growing interest in the potential of creative industries in developing countries, in October 2011 a Ministry of Tourism and Creative Economy was created within the Indonesian government with well-known economist Dr Mari Pangestu appointed as the first minister to hold the position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453596", "title": "Critique", "text": "Critique\n\nCritique is a method of disciplined, systematic study of a written or oral discourse. Although critique is commonly understood as fault finding and negative judgment, it can also involve merit recognition, and in the philosophical tradition it also means a methodical practice of doubt. The contemporary sense of critique has been largely influenced by the Enlightenment critique of prejudice and authority, which championed the emancipation and autonomy from religious and political authorities.\n\nThe term \"critique\" derives, via French, from Ancient Greek (), meaning \"the faculty of judgment\", that is, discerning the value of persons or things. Critique is also known as major logic, as opposed to minor logic or dialectics.\n\nPhilosophy is the application of critical thought, and is the disciplined practice of processing the \"theory/praxis problem\". In philosophical contexts, such as law or academics, critique is most influenced by Kant's use of the term to mean a reflective examination of the validity and limits of a human capacity or of a set of philosophical claims. This has been extended in modern philosophy to mean a systematic inquiry into the conditions and consequences of a concept, a theory, a discipline, or an approach and/or attempt to understand the limitations and validity of that. A \"critical perspective\", in this sense, is the opposite of a dogmatic one. Kant wrote:\n\nLater thinkers such as Hegel used the word 'critique' in a broader way than Kant's sense of the word, to mean the systematic inquiry into the limits of a doctrine or \"set\" of concepts. This referential expansion led, for instance, to the formulation of the idea of social critique, such as arose after Karl Marx's theoretical work delineated in his Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy (1859), which was a critique of the then-current models of economic theory and thought of that time. Further critique can then be applied after the fact, by using thorough critique as a basis for new argument. The idea of \"critique\" is elemental to legal, aesthetic, and literary theory and such practices, such as in the analysis and evaluation of writings such as pictorial, musical, or expanded textual works.\n\nIn French, German, or Italian, no distinction is drawn between 'critique' and 'criticism': the two words both translate as \"critique\", \"Kritik\", and \"critica\", respectively. In the English language, according to philosopher Gianni Vattimo, \"criticism\" is used more frequently to denote literary criticism or art criticism, that is the interpretation and evaluation of literature and art; while \"critique\" may be used to refer to more general and profound writing as Kant's \"Critique of pure reason\". Another proposed distinction is that critique is never personalized nor ad hominem, but is instead the analyses of the structure of the thought in the content of the item critiqued. This analysis then offers by way of the critique method either a rebuttal or a suggestion of further expansion upon the problems presented by the topic of that specific written or oral argumentation. Even authors that believe there might be a distinction suggest that there is some ambiguity that is still unresolved.\n\nMarx's work inspired the 'Frankfurt School' of critical theory, now best exemplified in the work of Jürgen Habermas. This, in turn, helped inspire the cultural studies form of social critique, which treats cultural products and their reception as evidence of wider social ills such as racism or gender bias. Social critique has been further extended in the work of Michel Foucault and of Alasdair MacIntyre. In their different and radically contrasting ways, MacIntyre and Foucault go well beyond the original Kantian meaning of the term \"critique\" in contesting legitimatory accounts of social power.\n\n"}
{"id": "2015787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015787", "title": "Crossroads, Kansas City", "text": "Crossroads, Kansas City\n\nThe Crossroads (officially the Crossroads Arts District) is a historic neighborhood near Downtown Kansas City, Missouri. It is centered at approximately 19th Street and Baltimore Avenue, directly south of the Downtown Loop and north of Crown Center. It is the city's main art gallery district and center for the visual arts. Dozens of galleries are located in its renovated warehouses and industrial buildings. It is also home to numerous restaurants, housewares shops, architects, designers, an advertising agency, and other visual artists. The district also has several live music venues.\n\nNumerous buildings in the neighborhood are listed on the National Register of Historic Places, including the TWA Corporate Headquarters Building, Western Auto Building, and Firestone Building. There are two historic groups of buildings also on the Register—Working Class Hotels at 19th & Main Streets (Midwest Hotel, Monroe Hotel, and Rieger Hotel) and Crossroads Historic Freight District (industrial buildings clustered along the tracks north of Union Station).\n\nThe Crossroads district is also home to one of the county's largest remaining examples of a Film Row district. The Film Row district consists of 17 buildings. Following the demolition of a Film Row building, the Film Row district was placed on Missouri Preservation's 2013 list of \"watched properties.\"\n\n\"The Kansas City Star\" and \"The Pitch\" maintain offices in the neighborhood, along with HOK and Barkley. The Belger Arts Center is also located in the district.\n\nArt galleries generally open new shows on the first Friday of each month from 6 to 9 pm. This has become one of the region's most popular regular events as thousands of people flock to the Crossroads for gallery \"open houses\" amidst the Crossroads's unique atmosphere.\n\nThere are more than 60 galleries in the Crossroads district, making it one of the five largest arts districts in the US.\n\nFirst held in late August 2005, the Crossroads Music Festival is an annual event organized by Spice of Life Productions, which features local music artists. The 2005 event was held at Grinder's Sculpture Park (CrossroadsKC) at 18th Street and Locust Street. In addition to concert performances, offerings include short films by local independent filmmakers and booths offering apparel by local designers, local independent print media, and carnival games.\n\nIn 2007, one of Kansas City's development agencies began a program to allow property tax abatements for art-related business who would otherwise be priced out of the neighborhood by fast-rising property values. Neighborhood leaders lobbied for the program to prevent the \"Soho Effect\" of gentrification. Tax abatements had been granted to developers to attract new residents to the neighborhood with high-end condominiums and lofts next to the galleries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12681822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12681822", "title": "DeFence", "text": "DeFence\n\n'deFENCE' is an interactive conceptual art project for freedom of cohabitation, designed in such a way as to include each beholder personally. In tradition of Marcel Duchamp, the \"two main roles\" of this exhibit are the work itself, and the person watching it. Only here, the subjective role of the beholder is not the only one. They are personally drawn into the exhibit, by way of a mirror. \nThe work represents a house, with its door wide open, inviting and welcoming every visitor. Except, a certain visitor is watching this house over a barbed wire fence. On the other hand, this visitor is being watched from the window of the house. The author's intention was to combine these two persons into one, so that people who had never had the chance to be on the other side of the barbed wire, can benefit in two ways: Firstly, they can see how it is to be looking over a barbed wire into a house inviting you, which you cannot reach. And secondly, they can see themselves passively looking from the house at the person outside the fence, doing nothing to remove this segregation.\n\nThe concept of this project is to bring to the attention of people living in the 'free' world that many of the boundaries that segregate others in a 'non free' world, are created by themselves. Or, at least, they do nothing to remove these boundaries.\nThe wish of the author is to help remove all boundaries that separate people and worlds.\n\n\"Note:\" 'deFENCE' project was created by Gregor Marković from Serbia, in January 2006. It has been selected to take part at the International Design Biennial in St. Etienne, in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "142259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142259", "title": "Defamiliarization", "text": "Defamiliarization\n\nDefamiliarization or ostranenie () is the artistic technique of presenting to audiences common things in an unfamiliar or strange way in order to enhance perception of the familiar.\n\nAccording to (De Guzman, 2016), Defamiliarization of that which is or has become familiar or taken for granted, hence automatically perceived, is the basic function of all devices. And with defamiliarization come both the slowing down and the increased difficulty (impeding) of the process of reading and comprehending and an awareness of the artistic procedures (devices) causing them. (Margolin 2005)\nThe term \"defamiliarization\" was first coined in 1917 by Viktor Shklovsky in his essay \"Art as Device\" (alternate translation: \"Art as Technique\") (Crawford 209). Shklovsky invented the term as a means to \"distinguish poetic from practical language on the basis of the former's perceptibility\" (Crawford 209). Essentially, he is stating that poetic language is fundamentally different than the language that we use every day because it is more difficult to understand: \"Poetic speech is \"formed speech\". Prose is ordinary speech – economical, easy, proper, the goddess of prose [\"dea prosae\"] is a goddess of the accurate, facile type, of the \"direct\" expression of a child\" (Shklovsky 20). This difference is the key to the creation of art and the prevention of \"over-automatization,\" which causes an individual to \"function as though by formula\" (Shklovsky 16). This distinction between artistic language and everyday language, for Shklovsky, applies to all artistic forms:\n\nThe purpose of art is to impart the sensation of things as they are perceived and not as they are known. The technique of art is to make objects ‘unfamiliar,' to make forms difficult to increase the difficulty and length of perception because the process of perception is an aesthetic end in itself and must be prolonged. (Shklovsky 16) \n\nThus, defamiliarization serves as a means to force individuals to recognize artistic language:\n\nIn studying poetic speech in its phonetic and lexical structure as well as in its characteristic distribution of words and in the characteristic thought structures compounded from the words, we find everywhere the artistic trademark – that is, we find material obviously created to remove the automatism of perception; the author's purpose is to create the vision which results from that deautomatized perception. A work is created \"artistically\" so that its perception is impeded and the greatest possible effect is produced through the slowness of the perception. (Shklovsky 19)\n\nThis technique is meant to be especially useful in distinguishing poetry from prose, for, as Aristotle said, \"poetic language must appear strange and wonderful\" (Shklovsky 19).\n\nTo illustrate what he means by defamiliarization, Shklovsky uses examples from Tolstoy, whom he cites as using the technique throughout his works: \"The narrator of 'Kholstomer,' for example, is a horse, and it is the horse's point of view (rather than a person's) that makes the content of the story seem unfamiliar\" (Shklovsky 16). As a Russian Formalist, many of Shklovsky's examples use Russian authors and Russian dialects: \"And currently Maxim Gorky is changing his diction from the old literary language to the new literary colloquialism of Leskov. Ordinary speech and literary language have thereby changed places (see the work of Vyacheslav Ivanov and many others)\" (Shklovsky 19-20).\n\nDefamiliarization also includes the use of foreign languages within a work. At the time that Shklovsky was writing, there was a change in the use of language in both literature and everyday spoken Russian. As Shklovsky puts it: \"Russian literary language, which was originally foreign to Russia, has so permeated the language of the people that it has blended with their conversation. On the other hand, literature has now begun to show a tendency towards the use of dialects and/or barbarisms\" (Shklovsky 19).\n\nShklovsky's defamiliarization can also be compared to Jacques Derrida's concept of différance:\n\nWhat Shklovskij wants to show is that the operation of defamiliarization and its consequent perception in the literary system is like the winding of a watch (the introduction of energy into a physical system): both \"originate\" difference, change, value, motion, presence. Considered against the general and functional background of Derridian différance, what Shklovskij calls \"perception\" can be considered a matrix for production of difference. (Crawford 212) \n\nSince the term différance refers to the dual meanings of the French word difference to mean both \"to differ\" and \"to defer\", defamiliarization draws attention to the use of common language in such a way as to alter one's perception of an easily understandable object or concept. The use of defamiliarization both differs and defers, since the use of the technique alters one's perception of a concept (to defer), and forces one to think about the concept in different, often more complex, terms (to differ).\nShklovskij's formulations negate or cancel out the existence/possibility of a \"real\" perception: variously, by (1) the familiar Formalist denial of a link between literature and life, connoting their status as non-communicating vessels, (2) always, as if compulsively, referring to a real experience in terms of empty, dead, and automatized repetition and recognition, and (3) implicitly locating real perception at an unspecifiable temporally anterior and spatially other place, at a mythic \"first time\" of naïve experience, the loss of which to automatization is to be restored by aesthetic perceptual fullness. (Crawford 218)\n\nThe influence of Russian Formalism on twentieth-century art and culture is largely due to the literary technique of defamiliarization or ‘making strange’, and has also been linked to Freud’s notion of the uncanny. In \"Das Unheimliche\" (\"The Uncanny\"), Freud states that “the uncanny is that class of the frightening which leads back to what is known of old and long familiar,” however, this is not a fear of the unknown, but more of a feeling about something being both strange and familiar (220). The connection between \"ostranenie\" and the uncanny can be seen where Freud muses on the technique of literary uncanniness: “It is true that the writer creates a kind of uncertainty in us in the beginning by not letting us know, no doubt purposely, whether he is taking us into the real world or into a purely fantastic one of his own creation” (230). When “the writer pretends to move in the world of common reality,” they can situate supernatural events, such as the animation of inanimate objects, in the quotidian, day-to-day reality of the modern world, defamiliarizing the reader and provoking an uncanny feeling (250).\n\nThe technique appears in English Romantic poetry, particularly in the poetry of Wordsworth, and was defined in the following way by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, in his \"Biographia Literaria\": \"To carry on the feelings of childhood into the powers of manhood; to combine the child's sense of wonder and novelty with the appearances which every day for perhaps forty years had rendered familiar ... this is the character and privilege of genius.\" \nIn more recent times, it has been associated with the poet and playwright Bertolt Brecht, whose Verfremdungseffekt (\"estrangement effect\") was a potent element of his approach to theater. In fact, as Willett points out, Verfremdungseffekt is \"a translation of the Russian critic Viktor Shklovskij's phrase 'Priem Ostranenija', or 'device for making strange'\". Brecht, in turn, has been highly influential for artists and filmmakers including Jean-Luc Godard and Yvonne Rainer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46198562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46198562", "title": "Expression (architecture)", "text": "Expression (architecture)\n\nExpression (Lat. expressio) in architecture implies a clear and authentic displaying of the character or personality of an individual (architect). The expression is often identified with the architectural movement of expressionism, whose main starting point and aim is to present and express what has been „seen“ or experienced in the inner eye of the mind, heart and soul, i.e. to express the subjective moods and feelings without referring to conventional and „objective” values, judgments and truths. \n\nThe main problem in the critical analysis of the theoretical interpretations of the concept of expression in architecture, lies in the fact that the concept of expression is used in different ways in different fields of science and art. Regarding the concept of expression, the following interpretations can often be found:\nIn the widest sense, the concept of expression refers to the activity undertaken with a specific intention. However, what is the aim of expressing something will depend on the field in which the term is used.\n\nWith this is mind, some authors emphasize the unconscious or spontaneous character of expression, while others emphasize its cognitive aspect.\nExpression can also be defined as part of the communication process which consists of two complementary components, expression (transmitted information) and impression (received information).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250466", "title": "Generative art", "text": "Generative art\n\nGenerative art refers to art that in whole or in part has been created with the use of an autonomous system. An autonomous system in this context is generally one that is non-human and can independently determine features of an artwork that would otherwise require decisions made directly by the artist. In some cases the human creator may claim that the generative system represents their own artistic idea, and in others that the system takes on the role of the creator.\n\n\"Generative art\" often refers to algorithmic art (algorithmically determined computer generated artwork), but artists can also make it using systems of chemistry, biology, mechanics and robotics, smart materials, manual randomization, mathematics, data mapping, symmetry, tiling, and more.\n\nThe use of the word \"generative\" in the discussion of art has developed over time. The use of \"Artificial DNA\" defines a generative approach to art focused on the construction of a system able to generate unpredictable events, all with a recognizable common character. The use of autonomous systems, required by some contemporary definitions, focuses a generative approach where the controls are strongly reduced. This approach is also named \"emergent\". Margaret Boden and Ernest Edmonds have noted the use of the term \"generative art\" in the broad context of automated computer graphics in the 1960s, beginning with artwork exhibited by Georg Nees and Frieder Nake in 1965:\n\nThe first such exhibition showed the work of Nees in February 1965, which some claim was titled \"Generative Computergrafik\". While Nees does not himself remember, this was the title of his doctoral thesis published a few years later. The correct title of the first exhibition and catalog was \"computer-grafik\". \"Generative art\" and related terms was in common use by several other early computer artists around this time, including Manfred Mohr. The term \"Generative Art\" with the meaning of dynamic artwork-systems able to generate multiple artwork-events was clearly used the first time for the \"Generative Art\" conference in Milan in 1998.\n\nThe term has also been used to describe geometric abstract art where simple elements are repeated, transformed, or varied to generate more complex forms. Thus defined, generative art was practised by the Argentinian artists Eduardo McEntyre and Miguel Ángel Vidal in the late 1960s. In 1972 the Romanian-born Paul Neagu created the Generative Art Group in Britain. It was populated exclusively by Neagu using aliases such as \"Hunsy Belmood\" and \"Edward Larsocchi.\" In 1972 Neagu gave a lecture titled 'Generative Art Forms' at the Queen's University, Belfast Festival.\n\nIn 1970 the School of the Art Institute of Chicago created a department called \"Generative Systems.\" As described by Sonia Landy Sheridan the focus was on art practices using the then new technologies for the capture, inter-machine transfer, printing and transmission of images, as well as the exploration of the aspect of time in the transformation of image information.\n\nIn 1988 Clauser identified the aspect of systemic autonomy as a critical element in generative art:\n\nIn 1989 Celestino Soddu defined the Generative Design approach to Architecture and Town Design in his book \"Citta' Aleatorie\".\n\nIn 1989 Franke referred to \"generative mathematics\" as \"the study of mathematical operations suitable for generating artistic images.\"\n\nFrom the mid-1990s Brian Eno popularized the terms generative music and generative systems, making a connection with earlier experimental music by Terry Riley, Steve Reich and Philip Glass.\n\nFrom the end of the 20th century, communities of generative artists, designers, musicians and theoreticians began to meet, forming cross-disciplinary perspectives. \nThe first meeting about generative Art was in 1998, at the inaugural International Generative Art conference at Politecnico di Milano University, Italy. \nIn Australia, the Iterate conference on generative systems in the electronic arts followed in 1999. \nOn-line discussion has centred around the eu-gene mailing list, which began late 1999, and has hosted much of the debate which has defined the field. These activities have more recently been joined by the Generator.x conference in Berlin starting in 2005.\nIn 2012 the new journal GASATHJ, Generative Art Science and Technology Hard Journal was founded by Celestino Soddu and Enrica Colabella jointing several generative artists and scientists in the Editorial Board.\n\nSome have argued that as a result of this engagement across disciplinary boundaries, the community has converged on a shared meaning of the term. As Boden and Edmonds put it in 2011:\n\nIn the call of the Generative Art conferences in Milan (annually starting from 1998), the definition of Generative Art by Celestino Soddu:\n\nDiscussion on the eu-gene mailing list was framed by the following definition by Adrian Ward from 1999:\n\nA similar definition is provided by Philip Galanter:\n\nJohann Philipp Kirnberger's \"Musikalisches Würfelspiel\" (Musical Dice Game) 1757 is considered an early example of a generative system based on randomness. Dice were used to select musical sequences from a numbered pool of previously composed phrases. This system provided a balance of order and disorder. The structure was based on an element of order on one hand, and disorder on the other.\n\nThe fugues of J.S. Bach could be considered generative, in that there is a strict underlying process that is followed by the composer. Similarly, serialism follows strict procedures which, in some cases, can be set up to generate entire compositions with limited human intervention.\n\nComposers such as John Cage, Farmers Manual and Brian Eno have used generative systems in their works.\n\nThe artist Ellsworth Kelly created paintings by using chance operations to assign colors in a grid. He also created works on paper that he then cut into strips or squares and reassembled using chance operations to determine placement.\n\nArtists such as Hans Haacke have explored processes of physical and social systems in artistic context. \nFrançois Morellet has used both highly ordered and highly disordered systems in his artwork. Some of his paintings feature regular systems of radial or parallel lines to create Moiré Patterns. In other works he has used chance operations to determine the coloration of grids. Sol LeWitt created generative art in the form of systems expressed in natural language and systems of geometric permutation. Harold Cohen's AARON system is a longstanding project combining software artificial intelligence with robotic painting devices to create physical artifacts. \nSteina and Woody Vasulka are video art pioneers who used analog video feedback to create generative art. Video feedback is now cited as an example of deterministic chaos, and the early explorations by the Vasulkas anticipated contemporary science by many years.\nSoftware systems exploiting evolutionary computing to create visual form include those created by Scott Draves and Karl Sims.\nThe digital artist Joseph Nechvatal has exploited models of viral contagion. \n\"Autopoiesis\" by Ken Rinaldo includes fifteen musical and robotic sculptures that interact with the public and modify their behaviors based on both the presence of the participants and each other.\nJean-Pierre Hebert and Roman Verostko are founding members of the Algorists, a group of artists who create their own algorithms to create art.\nA. Michael Noll, of Bell Telephone Laboratories, Incorporated, programmed computer art using mathematical equations and programmed randomness, starting in 1962.\nThe French artist Jean-Max Albert, beside environmental sculptures like \"Iapetus\", and \"O=C=O\", developed a project dedicated to the vegetation itself, in terms of biological activity. The \"Calmoduline Monument\" project is based on the property of a protein, calmodulin, to bond selectively to calcium. Exterior physical constraints (wind, rain, etc.) modify the electric potential of the cellular membranes of a plant and consequently the flux of calcium. However, the calcium controls the expression of the calmoduline gene. The plant can thus, when there is a stimulus, modify its « typical » growth pattern. So the basic principle of this monumental sculpture is that to the extent that they could be picked up and transported, these signals could be enlarged, translated into colors and shapes, and show the plant’s « decisions » suggesting a level of fundamental biological activity.\n\nMaurizio Bolognini works with generative machines to address conceptual and social concerns.\nMark Napier is a pioneer in data mapping, creating works based on the streams of zeros and ones in ethernet traffic, as part of the \"Carnivore\" project. Martin Wattenberg pushed this theme further, transforming \"data sets\" as diverse as musical scores (in \"Shape of Song\", 2001) and Wikipedia edits (History Flow, 2003, with Fernanda Viegas) into dramatic visual compositions.\nThe Canadian artist San Base developed a \"Dynamic Painting\" algorithm in 2002. Using computer algorithms as \"brush strokes,\" Base creates sophisticated imagery that evolves over time to produce a fluid, never-repeating artwork.\n\nFor some artists, graphic user interfaces and computer code have become an independent art form in themselves. Adrian Ward created Auto-Illustrator as a commentary on software and generative methods applied to art and design.\n\nIn 1987 Celestino Soddu created the artificial DNA of Italian Medieval towns able to generate endless 3D models of cities identifiable as belonging to the idea.\n\nWriters such as Tristan Tzara, Brion Gysin, and William Burroughs used the cut-up technique to introduce randomization to literature as a generative system. Jackson Mac Low produced computer-assisted poetry and used algorithms to generate texts; Philip M. Parker has written software to automatically generate entire books. Jason Nelson used generative methods with Speech-to-Text software to create a series of digital poems from movies, television and other audio sources.\n\nGenerative systems may be modified while they operate, for example by using interactive programming environments such as Max/MSP, vvvv, Fluxus, Isadora, Quartz Composer and openFrameworks. This is a standard approach to programming by artists, but may also be used to create live music and/or video by manipulating generative systems on stage, a performance practice that has become known as live coding. As with many examples of software art, because live coding emphasises human authorship rather than autonomy, it may be considered in opposition to generative art.\n\nIn the most widely cited theory of generative art, in 2003 Philip Galanter describes generative art systems in the context of complexity theory. In particular the notion of Murray Gell-Mann and Seth Lloyd's effective complexity is cited. In this view both highly ordered and highly disordered generative art can be viewed as simple. Highly ordered generative art minimizes entropy and allows maximal data compression, and highly disordered generative art maximizes entropy and disallows significant data compression. Maximally complex generative art blends order and disorder in a manner similar to biological life, and indeed biologically inspired methods are most frequently used to create complex generative art. This view is at odds with the earlier information theory influenced views of Max Bense and Abraham Moles where complexity in art increases with disorder.\n\nGalanter notes further that given the use of visual symmetry, pattern, and repetition by the most ancient known cultures generative art is as old as art itself. He also addresses the mistaken equivalence by some that rule-based art is synonymous with generative art. For example, some art is based on constraint rules that disallow the use of certain colors or shapes. Such art is not generative because constraint rules are not constructive, i.e. by themselves they don't assert what is to be done, only what cannot be done.\n\nIn their 2009 article, Margaret Boden and Ernest Edmonds agree that generative art need not be restricted to that done using computers, and that some rule-based art is not generative. They develop a technical vocabulary that includes Ele-art (electronic art), C-art (computer art), D-art (digital art), CA-art (computer assisted art), G-art (generative art), CG-art (computer based generative art), Evo-art (evolutionary based art), R-art (robotic art), I-art (interactive art), CI-art (computer based interactive art), and VR-art (virtual reality art).\n\nThe discourse around generative art can be characterised by the theoretical questions which motivate its development. McCormack et al. propose the following questions, shown with paraphrased summaries, as the most important:\n\n\nAnother question is of postmodernism—are generative art systems the ultimate expression of the postmodern condition, or do they point to a new synthesis based on a complexity-inspired world-view?\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20443993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20443993", "title": "Gifted art", "text": "Gifted art\n\nGifted art (or free art) is any form or piece of art that is given freely, whether to a city, a group of people, a community or an individual. It refers to any art that is distributed at no direct cost. It is a form of conceptual art. It comes from a belief that art should be available for all people to enjoy, whether rich or poor, university graduate or junior high dropout. Since Gifted Art is an expressive form of art - an idea, it encompasses virtually all forms of art: movies, literature, music recordings, sculpture, painting, graffiti, digital art, street performances, performance art, sticker art, comics, coffeehouse poetry and Internet-distributed art etc.\n\nGifted Art has a long history in the arts. Many artists have been known to give art freely to each other, in an effort to pass along ideas, etc. Picasso and many of his contemporaries were fond of this.\nDuchamp was one of the first modern day artists to Gift to the public with his piece, \"Fountain\", for an art show in 1917. He gave the piece under the name of \"R. Mutt,\" presumably to hide his identity as the artist. He actually had to pay $7 to have the piece exhibited in the show, and never intended on making any money from it. He gave it freely for all to see and to push forward the Dada movement.\nIn the 50's, Ray Johnson started doing Mail art. He spread the idea to many other artists and it still occurs today. In 2002, a 6 ft X 53 ft mural by Roy Lichtenstein was installed in the Times Square Subway Station in New York City. It was gifted by the artist to all New Yorkers.\nIn recent years, Gifted Art has primarily been embraced by graffiti and urban artists. Many graffiti artists consider the work they do to be art for the public. Banksy writes in his books that he believes art is more important and more enjoyable when it is out on the street where people can view it in their everyday lives than when it hangs in a museum.\n\n\n\nhttp://www.featherandfathomfreeart.wordpress.com\nThere are now several art shows and organizations where art is gifted. Here are a few.\n"}
{"id": "2503603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2503603", "title": "Grand Center Arts District, St. Louis", "text": "Grand Center Arts District, St. Louis\n\nThe Grand Center Arts District is located in the Midtown St. Louis Historic District on the National Register of Historic Places north of the Saint Louis University campus. Referred to colloquially as Grand Center, the neighborhood was formally known as Covenant Blu-Grand Center. The neighborhood is a member of the Global Cultural Districts Network. \n\nGrand Center is the site of numerous arts and entertainment venues including the Fox Theatre, Powell Symphony Hall (home of the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra), the Contemporary Art Museum Saint Louis, the Pulitzer Arts Foundation, the Sheldon Concert Hall, Clyde C. Miller Career Academy, and Jazz St. Louis.\n\nThe neighborhood is an eclectic mix of restored historic structures and newer buildings with street art and neon signage centered on Strauss Park at the intersection of Grand Boulevard and Washington Ave. It includes Third Baptist Church, the St. Louis Black Repertory Theatre Company, the Grand Center Arts Academy, KDHX Community Media, St. Louis Public Radio (KWMU), the Kranzberg Arts Center, and the headquarters of the Nine Network of Public Media (KETC), a PBS affiliate. It is near the Grand MetroLink station.\n\nIn 2010 Grand Center's population was 56.3% Black, 35.0% White, 6.5% Asian, 1.4% Two or More Races, and 0.7% Some Other Race. 2.3% of the population was of Hispanic or Latino origin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5208230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208230", "title": "Illumination (image)", "text": "Illumination (image)\n\nIllumination is an important concept in visual arts.\n\nThe illumination of the subject of a drawing or painting is a key element in creating an artistic piece, and the interplay of light and shadow is a valuable method in the artist's toolbox. The placement of the light sources can make a considerable difference in the type of message that is being presented. Multiple light sources can wash out any wrinkles in a person's face, for instance, and give a more youthful appearance. In contrast, a single light source, such as harsh daylight, can serve to highlight any texture or interesting features.\n\nProcessing of illumination is an important concept in computer vision and computer graphics. \n\n"}
{"id": "4288902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4288902", "title": "Index of articles related to sound art", "text": "Index of articles related to sound art\n\n"}
{"id": "50010391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50010391", "title": "Koi and the Kola Nuts", "text": "Koi and the Kola Nuts\n\nKoi and the Kola Nuts is a Nigerian folklore which takes place in an Igbo tribal village. When the son of the Chief named Koi decides to leave the village for many weeks, he then returns to the village only to find out his father the Chief had died and the villagers forget that the decessed chief even had a son. They accused Koi of being a liar. The villagers tell Koi to prove he's actually the son of the Chief by doing a series of tasks. One task was to retrieve a sac full of Kola nuts, and retrieve a golden ring that was thrown into the deep part of a river. If he succeeds they'll believe he is the son of a chief, and if he doesn't succeed they'll eat him.\n\nKoi succeeds in all tasks, but doesn't do all the tasks by himself. With the help of a few jungle creatures they all save Koi from being eaten from the villagers. Koi proves himself to the village and becomes a Chief of the Igbo village.\n"}
{"id": "180868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180868", "title": "Land art", "text": "Land art\n\nLand art, variously known as Earth art, environmental art, and Earthworks, is an art movement that emerged in the 1960s and 1970s, largely associated with Great Britain and the United States, but which included examples from many countries. As a trend \"Land art\" expanded boundaries of art by the materials used and the siting of the works. The materials used were often the materials of the Earth including for instance the soil and rocks and vegetation and water found on-site, and the siting of the works were often distant from population centers. Though sometimes fairly inaccessible, photo documentation was commonly brought back to the urban art gallery.\n\nConcerns of the art movement centered around rejection of the commercialization of art-making and enthusiasm with an emergent ecological movement. The art movement coincided with the popularity of the rejection of urban living and its counterpart, an enthusiasm for that which is rural. Included in these inclinations were spiritual yearnings concerning the planet Earth as home to mankind.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s land art protested \"ruthless commercialization\" of art in America. During this period, exponents of land art rejected the museum or gallery as the setting of artistic activity and developed monumental landscape projects which were beyond the reach of traditional transportable sculpture and the commercial art market, although photographic documentation was often presented in normal gallery spaces. Land art was inspired by minimal art and conceptual art but also by modern movements such as De Stijl, Cubism, minimalism and the work of Constantin Brâncuși and Joseph Beuys. Many of the artists associated with land art had been involved with minimal art and conceptual art. Isamu Noguchi's 1941 design for \"Contoured Playground\" in New York is sometimes interpreted as an important early piece of land art even though the artist himself never called his work \"land art\" but simply \"sculpture\". His influence on contemporary land art, landscape architecture and environmental sculpture is evident in many works today.\n\nAlan Sonfist used an alternative approach to working with nature and culture by bringing historical nature and sustainable art back into New York City. His most inspirational work is \"Time Landscape\", an indigenous forest he planted in New York City. He also created several other \"Time Landscapes\" around the world such as \"Circles of Time\" in Florence Italy documenting the historical usage of the land, and recently at the deCordova Sculpture Park and Museum outside Boston. According to critic Barbara Rose, writing in \"Artforum\" in 1969, he had become disillusioned with the commodification and insularity of gallery bound art. In 1967, the art critic Grace Glueck writing in the \"New York Times\" declared the first earthwork was done by Douglas Leichter and Richard Saba at the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. The sudden appearance of land art in 1968 can be located as a response by a generation of artists mostly in their late twenties to the heightened political activism of the year and the emerging environmental and women's liberation movements.\n\nOne example of land art in the 20th century was a group exhibition created in 1968 at the Dwan Gallery in New York. In February 1969, Willoughby Sharp curated the \"Earth Art\" exhibition at the Andrew Dickson White Museum of Art at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. The artists included were Walter De Maria, Jan Dibbets, Hans Haacke, Michael Heizer, Neil Jenney, Richard Long, David Medalla, Robert Morris, Dennis Oppenheim, Robert Smithson, and Gunther Uecker. The exhibition was directed by Thomas W. Leavitt. Gordon Matta-Clark, who lived in Ithaca at the time, was invited by Sharp to help the artists in \"Earth Art\" with the on-site execution of their works for the exhibition.\n\nPerhaps the best known artist who worked in this genre was the American Robert Smithson whose 1968 essay \"The Sedimentation of the Mind: Earth Projects\" provided a critical framework for the movement as a reaction to the disengagement of Modernism from social issues as represented by the critic Clement Greenberg. His best known piece, and probably the most famous piece of all land art, is the \"Spiral Jetty\" (1970), for which Smithson arranged rock, earth and algae so as to form a long (1500 ft) spiral-shape jetty protruding into Great Salt Lake in northern Utah, U.S.. How much of the work, if any, is visible is dependent on the fluctuating water levels. Since its creation, the work has been completely covered, and then uncovered again, by water. A steward of the artwork in conjunction with the Dia Foundation, the Utah Museum of Fine Arts regularly curates programming around the Spiral Jetty, including a \"Family Backpacks\" program. Smithson's \"Gravel Mirror with Cracks and Dust\" (1968) is an example of land art existing in a gallery space rather than in the natural environment. It consists of a pile of gravel by the side of a partially mirrored gallery wall. In its simplicity of form and concentration on the materials themselves, this and other pieces of land art have an affinity with minimalism. There is also a relationship to Arte Povera in the use of materials traditionally considered \"unartistic\" or \"worthless\". The Italian Germano Celant, founder of Arte Povera, was one of the first curator to promote Land Art.\n\n'Land Artists' have tended to be American, with other prominent artists in this field including, Carl Andre, Alice Aycock, Walter De Maria, Hans Haacke, Michael Heizer, Nancy Holt, Ana Mendieta, Dennis Oppenheim, Andrew Rogers, Charles Ross, Alan Sonfist, and James Turrell. Turrell began work in 1972 on possibly the largest piece of land art thus far, reshaping the earth surrounding the extinct Roden Crater volcano in Arizona. Perhaps the most prominent non-American land artists are the British Chris Drury, Andy Goldsworthy, Richard Long and the Australian Andrew Rogers.\nIn 1973 Jacek Tylicki begins to lay out blank canvases or paper sheets in the natural environment for the nature to create art.\n\nSome projects by the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude (who are famous for wrapping monuments, buildings and landscapes in fabric) have also been considered land art by some, though the artists themselves consider this incorrect. Joseph Beuys' concept of 'social sculpture' influenced 'Land art' and his '7000 Eichen' project of 1982 to plant 7000 Oak trees has many similarities to 'Land art' processes. Rogers' “Rhythms of Life” project is the largest contemporary land-art undertaking in the world, forming a chain of stone sculptures, or geoglyphs, around the globe – 12 sites – in disparate exotic locations (from below sea level and up to altitudes of 4,300 m/14,107 ft). Up to three geoglyphs (ranging in size up to 40,000 sq m/430,560 sq ft) are located in each site.\n\nEduardo Sanguinetti, the Latino-American philosopher and land-artist, presented in 1979 his \"Sculptures in Earth\". They were placed in natural spaces, they became functional as plants and animals made their homes in that particular topos installed in the La Pampa desert. Later, they acquired the noise of codes capable of classifying smells and colours, and will complete the original idea of our artist, who was at that time absorbed by the countryside and its specular radiation...in his Land-Art Performance \"Solum\" (1987), in the zoomorphy of that horse that greatly seduce the audience of the Centro Cultural Recoleta (ex Centro Cultural Ciudad de Buenos Aires). \"Amarillo Total\" the name of the horse, not only stopped the ecologic blow but also paraded the models who had been completely painted by our artist, their naked painted bodies put another body to painting, with artesan colours prepared with earth and plants pigments.\nIn Sanguinetti's Essay \"Alter Ego\" (1986), he said: \"Spontaneous Activity in Nature...In nature, there is a type of spontaneous activity. This concept does not exist in cultured man, and if it does remain in children, it is like a faint reminiscence of the primitive mind...Consequently I think that the survival of an awareness of the supernatural in nature, should, in all works of Land-Art, be the thing which \"animates Everything\".\n\nLand artists in America relied mostly on wealthy patrons and private foundations to fund their often costly projects. With the sudden economic down turn of the mid-1970s funds from these sources largely stopped. With the death of Robert Smithson in a plane crash in 1973 the movement lost one of its most important figureheads and faded out. Charles Ross continues to work on the Star Axis project, which he began in 1971. Michael Heizer continues his work on City, and James Turrell continues to work on the Roden Crater project. In most respects, \"land art\" has become part of mainstream public art and in many cases the term \"land art\" is misused to label any kind of art in nature even though conceptually not related to the avant-garde works by the pioneers of land art.\n\nThe Earth art of the 1960s were sometimes reminiscent the much older land works, Stonehenge, the Pyramids, Native American mounds, the Nazca Lines in Peru, Carnac stones and Native American burial grounds, and often evoked the spirituality of such archeological sites.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11057839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11057839", "title": "Leonardo da Vinci International Art Award", "text": "Leonardo da Vinci International Art Award\n\nThe Leonardo da Vinci Award was established in 1975 by the Rotary Club of Florence as an annual international prize named after Leonardo da Vinci, to be presented to young people involved in the study of the sciences, technology, literature and the arts. Among the disciplines recognised and rewarded so far have been painting, sculpture, music, geology, architecture, medicine and nuclear physics. The 21st Leonardo da Vinci Prize was recently presented to the brilliant young pianist Johan Schmidt. The prize giving event has been hosted by other European Rotary Clubs in cities such as Tours, Vienna, Athens, Madrid, Würzburg, Brussels and Amsterdam. This event was last held in London in 1987, when the prize was awarded to the internationally recognised percussionist Evelyn Glennie. In 1996 1/2 the Rotary Club of London will again be responsible for hosting the prize-giving ceremony.\n"}
{"id": "26352160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26352160", "title": "Lightpainting", "text": "Lightpainting\n\nLightpainting is an art form developed by artist Stephen Knapp and introduced in 2002. Lightpainting (one word) is not to be confused with light painting (two words), the latter of which is a photographic process recording traces of light on film or digital media to create images that must be reproduced in printed or transparency form. Lightpainting uses white light projected in space through specially coated glass that breaks the light into bands of color, producing optically complex virtual 3D images that sit at the intersection of painting and sculpture. Lightpaintings can take the form of moveable wall-mounted panels but the most spectacular effects are achieved in large-scale architectural installations. Layers of metallic coating are applied to glass pieces to refract and reflect colors, which becomes the palette to be used as pure chroma or mixed into a wide spectrum of colors. Glass is cut into various sizes and shapes that determine planes of color and other elements that can be used much as in traditional painting or sculpture.\n\nArt critic Vince Carducci states:\n\n“The lightpaintings can and should be situated within the lineage of recent art. The optical tour-de-force of much of the work establishes its affinity with the eye-bending paintings of Op Artists such as Bridget Riley and Victor Vasarely. And yet the more serene passages, in which translucent color washes over veils of other translucent color, evoke the lyrical abstractions of less-hyperactive modernist masters such as Morris Louis and Helen Frankenthaler. Perhaps the most appropriate forebears are the examples of Zen-like perceptual presence achieved by California Light and Space artists such as Robert Irwin, James Turrell, and Eric Orr. But [lightpaintings] can be distinguished from all of these...in [the] use of light purely in and of itself not as a collateral effect of pigment or architectural structure.”\n\n"}
{"id": "6202008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6202008", "title": "List of stage mothers", "text": "List of stage mothers\n\nThis is a list of stage mothers. In the entertainment industry, a stage mother is the term for the mother of a child performer. Often the stage mother is the manager of the child's career and oversees their auditions, costuming and preparation for performances and negotiates financial remuneration on the child's behalf.\n\nThere is sometimes a negative connotation for the term, sometimes implying a mother who exerts unreasonable demands for the child's treatment, or puts undue pressure on the child, or who may take advantage of the child's income or notoriety for her own selfish purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1937788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1937788", "title": "Marid", "text": "Marid\n\nMarid ( \"\") is an Arabic word meaning \"rebellious\", which is sometimes applied to supernatural beings.\n\nThe word \"mārid\" is an active participle of the root \"m-r-d\" (مرد), whose primary meaning is \"recalcitrant, rebellious\". \"Lisān al-`arab\", the encyclopedic dictionary of classical Arabic compiled by Ibn Manzur, reports only forms of this general meaning. It is found as an attribute of evil spirits in the Qur'an (aṣ-Ṣāffāt, 37:7), which speaks of a \"safeguard against every rebellious devil\" (شَيْطَانٍ مَارِدٍ, \"shaitān mārid\").\n\nThe Wehr-Cowan dictionary of modern written Arabic also gives secondary meanings of \"demon\" and \"giant\". Lane's \"Arabic-English Lexicon\" cites a source where it \"is said to be applied to an evil jinnee of the most powerful class\", but this distinction is not universal. For example, in the standard MacNaghten edition of \"One Thousand and One Nights\" one finds the words \"marid\" and \"ifrit\" used interchangeably (e.g., in \"The Story of the Fisherman\").\n\nA mārid is explicitly mentioned in Sirat Sayf ibn Dhi-Yazan. Accordingly Sayf demands from the marid to lead him to Solomons hoard. But following his nature, the demon does the exact oppisite of that he was commanded. Later he learned from Khidr, he must command the opposite of that he desires him to do.\n\nIn Jonathan Stroud's \"Bartimaeus Sequence\" novel series, marids are the most powerful type of demons summoned by magicians.\n\nIn the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" tabletop game, marids are genies from the Elemental Plane of Water.\n\n"}
{"id": "34636886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34636886", "title": "Museum (journal)", "text": "Museum (journal)\n\n"}
{"id": "52787464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52787464", "title": "New Theatre Quarterly", "text": "New Theatre Quarterly\n\nNew Theatre Quarterly (NTQ) is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering theatre studies. It is published by Cambridge University Press. \"New Theatre Quarterly\" succeeds Theatre Quarterly (1971–81). Over the years, \"NTQ\" has developed a reputation for a \"down-to-earth approach\" to theatre studies.\n\nIts general editors are Maria Shevtsova of Goldsmiths, University of London, and Simon Trussler of Rose Bruford College. Shevtsova replaced Clive Barker, who died in 2005. Trussler and Barker were the journals founding editors.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\n"}
{"id": "53658842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53658842", "title": "Odd Man Out: Readings of the Work and Reputation of Edgar Degas", "text": "Odd Man Out: Readings of the Work and Reputation of Edgar Degas\n\nOdd Man Out: Readings of the Work and Reputation of Edgar Degas is a 1991 book by Carol Armstrong. It is about the paradoxes surrounding Edgar Degas and his works.\n\n\n\"Odd Man Out\" has been reviewed by \"Art History\", \"The Art Bulletin\", \"The French Review\", and \"The Burlington Magazine\".\n\nIt won the 1993 Charles Rufus Morey Book Award.\n"}
{"id": "33026053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33026053", "title": "Olot school", "text": "Olot school\n\nThe Olot school of landscape painting is a group of painters that created an artistic style in the second half of the 19th century. It includes not simply artists from Olot (in Catalonia, Spain), but all artists whose artworks were inspired by the countryside of Olot. By extension, artists connected with Olot and its comarca, Garrotxa.\n\nIn Catalonia, the proliferation of painting coincided with the Restoration, a period marked by economic prosperity that favored the bourgeoisie which was the motor of the cultural renaissance of Catalan nationalism. This bourgeoisie had considerable influence in the arts; it sought art that was realistic, but simultaneously pleasing, elegant, and optimistic, and preferred painting over other artistic disciplines. During this period, several schools of art began and were consolidated, among them the Olot school.\n\nThe Olot school of landscape painting is similar to the Barbizon school. It was formed by Joaquim and Marian Vayreda with the assistance of Ramón Martí Alsina. From this tradition emerged a new artistic concept: creating multiple versions of the Olot countryside, where the treatment of light and chromatic variations were important elements. The Olot school used the countryside of Garrotxa as a source of inspiration for their work, but with stylistic freedom. Vayreda's paintings attracted the attention of artists including Laureà Barrau, Enric Galwey, Joan Brull, Lluís Masriera, Modest Urgell, Ramon Casas, and Santiago Rusiñol, who went to Olot and also painted depictions of the countryside.\n\nThe Olot school was supported by the founding of the Olot Art School (Escola d'Art d'Olot) in 1783 by bishop Tomás de Lorenzana, and also by the creation of workshops dedicated to the reproduction of religious images. The first workshop that was dedicated to this work, \"El Arte Cristiano\", was founded in 1880. The industry of religious image making expanded considerably starting around 1900 in Olot, and became an important part of the city's economy. Today, the old Arte Cristiano factory has been converted into the Museum of the Saints (Museo de los Santos).\n\nThe Olot school was institutionalized by painter Josep Berga i Boix, who served as director of the Olot Artistic and Cultural Center (Centre Artístic-Cultural d'Olot) (founded by Vayreda) in 1869 and later as director of the Public School of Drawing (Escola Pública de Dibuix) from 1877-1914. Annual exhibitions were organized first by the Artistic and Cultural Center and then by other entities.\n\nNumerous other artists later continued the traditions of the Olot school, often training at the Public School of Drawing (called the Escola de Belles Arts i Oficis starting in 1939) under the direction of Ivó Pascual, Martí Casadevall, Bartomeu Mas y Collellmir, and Joan Vilà i Moncau. Other artists belonging to the movement include Josep Berga i Boada, Josep Clarà, Melcior Domenge, and Josep Pinós.\n\nThe Drawing Festival (Fira del Dibuix) is celebrated annually in Olot on the Day of Sant Lluc. This festival brings together many artists that sell their works directly to the public. The festival was conceived particularly for the sale of works on paper, such as sketches, but recently it has been possible to find artworks in many media.\n\nSince the 2003-2004 academic year, the Olot Art School (Escola d'Art d'Olot) has been called the Superior School of Art and Design (Escola d'Art i Superior de Disseny), adding a degree in interior design; a graphic design degree was added in 2007-2008. Today, there are more than 400 students enrolled, particularly from the neighboring comarcas.\n\nToday, the term \"Olot school\"--or particularly the term \"Olot school of landscape painting\" (\"escuela paisajística de Olot\" or \"escola paisatgística d'Olot\")--is not well-accepted, because not all artists connected with Olot paint landscapes, and not all the artists connected with the school work or live in the city of Olot.\n"}
{"id": "20546113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20546113", "title": "Organic décollage", "text": "Organic décollage\n\nOrganic décollage is a phrase used by the photographer Maria Stengard-Green to describe the naturally occurring or non-artistically organized décollage that echoes the work of Mimmo Rotella, Raymond Hains, Jacques Villeglé, Yves Klein and Robert Rauschenberg, and whose antecedents probably influenced their pioneering work.\n\nThis was particularly illustrated by the poster sites of the 2008 Rome City Council elections.\n\nIn art, décollage is created by cutting, ripping off or removing pieces of an original image or images to reveal the substrate or the images that lie beneath. A distinct genre of décollage is the torn poster. This happens when a poster has been pasted on top of another poster and then cut or torn to reveal the poster or posters beneath, or where ripped poster fragments are pasted, layer upon layer, to a canvas or substrate to create a new montage.\n\nThis genre is strongly associated with Mimmo Rotella; he invented it after returning from America in 1953 convinced that nothing in art was original. He had what he later described as a \"Zen illumination\" - the discovery of the advertising poster as a form of artistic expression. Armed with a penknife, he began ripping off posters and pieces of the zinc mounts from Rome's council advertising sites. He was then labelled the \"poster ripper\" or the \"painter of glued paper\". Rotella exhibited his \"torn posters\" for the first time at \"Esposizione d'arte attuale\" in 1955 and the term \"décollage\" was claimed for this genre in the same year by poet, artist and fellow Italian Emilio Villa. This French word, meaning \"to unstick\", first appeared in print in 1938 in \"Dictionnaire Abrégé du Surréalisme\" and notably from 1949 on, Hains was creating pieces from posters he had torn from Parisian walls.\n\n"}
{"id": "933406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=933406", "title": "Personal imaging", "text": "Personal imaging\n\nPersonal imaging is the continuous realtime capturing, archiving, recording,\nand sharing of personal experience through images. Typically the images are accompanied by other media such as audiovisual streams, or with textual narratives such as diaries, and often in an interactive way, i.e. people viewing the images comment on the images in realtime while they are being captured, so as to influence the capture process.\n"}
{"id": "17149192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17149192", "title": "Philosophy of design", "text": "Philosophy of design\n\nPhilosophy of design is the study of assumptions, foundations, and implications of design. The field is defined by an interest in a set of problems, or an interest in central or foundational concerns in design. In addition to these central problems for design as a whole, many philosophers of design consider these problems as they apply to particular disciplines (e.g. philosophy of art). Although most practitioners are philosophers, several prominent designers and artists have contributed to the field. For an introduction to the philosophy of design see the article by Per Galle at the Royal Danish Academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2169442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2169442", "title": "Primitivism", "text": "Primitivism\n\nPrimitivism is a mode of aesthetic idealization that either emulates or aspires to recreate \"primitive\" experience. In Western art, primitivism typically has borrowed from non-Western or prehistoric people perceived to be \"primitive\", such as Paul Gauguin's inclusion of Tahitian motifs in paintings and ceramics. Borrowings from primitive art has been important to the development of modern art. Primitivism has often been critiqued for reproducing the racist stereotypes about non-European peoples used by Europeans to justify colonial conquest.\n\nThe term \"primitivism\" is often applied to other professional painters working in the style of naïve or folk art like Henri Rousseau, Mikhail Larionov, Paul Klee and others.\n\nPrimitivism is a utopian idea that is distinctive for its reverse teleology. The utopian end toward which primitivists aspire usually lies in a notional \"state of nature\" in which their ancestors existed (chronological primitivism), or in the supposed natural condition of the peoples that live beyond \"civilization\" (cultural primitivism).\n\nThe desire of the \"civilized\" to be restored to a \"state of nature\" is as longstanding as civilization itself. In antiquity the superiority of \"primitive\" life principally found expression in the so-called Myth of the Golden Age, depicted in the genre of European poetry and visual art known as the Pastoral. Primitivist idealism between gained new impetus with the onset of industrialization and the European encounter with hitherto unknown peoples after the colonization of the Americas, the Pacific and other parts of what would become the modern imperial system.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, the idealization of indigenous peoples were chiefly used as a rhetorical device to criticize aspects of European society. In the realm of aesthetics, however, the eccentric Italian philosopher, historian and jurist Giambattista Vico (1688–1744) was the first to argue that primitive peoples were closer to the sources of poetry and artistic inspiration than \"civilized\" or modern man. Vico was writing in the context of the celebrated contemporary debate, known as the great Quarrel of the Ancients and the Moderns. This included debates over the merits of the poetry of Homer and the Bible as against modern vernacular literature.\n\nIn the 18th century, the German scholar Friedrich August Wolf identified the distinctive character of oral literature and located Homer and the Bible as examples of folk or oral tradition (\"Prolegomena to Homer\", 1795). Vico and Wolf's ideas were developed further in the beginning of the 19th century by Herder. Nevertheless, although influential in literature, such arguments were known to a relatively small number of educated people and their impact was limited or non-existent in the sphere of visual arts.\n\nThe 19th century saw for the first time the emergence of historicism, or the ability to judge different eras by their own context and criteria. A result of this, new schools of visual art arose that aspired to hitherto unprecedented levels of historical fidelity in setting and costumes. Neoclassicism in visual art and architecture was one result. Another such \"historicist\" movement in art was the Nazarene movement in Germany, which took inspiration from the so-called Italian \"primitive\" school of devotional paintings (i.e., before the age of Raphael and the discovery of oil painting).\n\nWhere conventional academic painting (after Raphael) used dark glazes, highly selective, idealized forms, and rigorous suppression of details, the Nazarenes used clear outlines, bright colors, and paid meticulous attention to detail. This German school had its English counterpart in the Pre-Raphaelites, who were primarily inspired by the critical writings of John Ruskin, who admired the painters before Raphael (such as Botticelli) and who also recommended painting outdoors, hitherto unheard of.\n\nTwo developments shook the world of visual art in the mid-19th century. The first was the invention of the photographic camera, which arguably spurred the development of Realism in art. The second was a discovery in the world of mathematics of non-Euclidean geometry, which overthrew the 2000-year-old seeming absolutes of Euclidean geometry and threw into question conventional Renaissance perspective by suggesting the possible existence of multiple dimensional worlds and perspectives in which things might look very different.\n\nThe discovery of possible new dimensions had the opposite effect of photography and worked to counteract realism. Artists, mathematicians, and intellectuals now realized that there were other ways of seeing things beyond what they had been taught in Beaux Arts Schools of Academic painting, which prescribed a rigid curriculum based on the copying of idealized classical forms and held up Renaissance perspective painting as the culmination of civilization and knowledge. Beaux Arts academies held than non-Western peoples had had no art or only inferior art.\n\nIn rebellion against this dogmatic approach, Western artists began to try to depict realities that might exist in a world beyond the limitations of the three dimensional world of conventional representation mediated by classical sculpture. They looked to Japanese and Chinese art, which they regarded as learned and sophisticated and did not employ Renaissance one-point perspective. Non-euclidean perspective and tribal art fascinated Western artists who saw in them the still-enchanted portrayal of the spirit world. They also looked to the art of untrained painters and to children's art, which they believed depicted interior emotional realities that had been ignored in conventional, cook-book-style academic painting.\n\nTribal and other non-European art also appealed to those who were unhappy with the repressive aspects of European culture, as pastoral art had done for millennia. Imitations of tribal or archaic art also fall into the category of nineteenth-century \"historicism\", as these imitations strive to reproduce this art in an authentic manner. Actual examples of tribal, archaic, and folk art were prized by both creative artists and collectors.\n\nThe painting of Paul Gauguin and Pablo Picasso and the music of Igor Stravinsky are frequently cited as the most prominent examples of primitivism in art. Stravinsky's \"The Rite of Spring\", is \"primitivist\" in so far as its programmatic subject is a pagan rite: a human sacrifice in pre-Christian Russia. It employs harsh dissonance and loud, repetitive rhythms to depict \"Dionysian\" modernism, i.e., abandonment of inhibition (restraint standing for civilization). Nevertheless, Stravinsky was a master of learned classical tradition and worked within its bounds. In his later work he adopted a more \"Apollonian\" neoclassicism, to use Nietzsche's terminology, although in his use of serialism he still rejects 19th-century convention. In modern visual art, Picasso's work is also understood as rejecting Beaux Arts artistic expectations and expressing primal impulses, whether he worked in a cubist, neo-classical, or tribal-art-influenced vein.\n\nPrimitivism gained a new impetus from anxieties about technological innovation but above all from the \"Age of Discovery\", which introduced the West to previously unknown peoples and opened the doors to colonialism. As the European Enlightenment. With the decline of feudalism, philosophers started questioning many fixed medieval assumptions about human nature, the position of humans in society, and the strictures of Christianity, and especially Catholicism. They began questioning the nature of humanity and its origins through a discussion of the natural man, which had intrigued theologians since the European encounter with the New World.\n\nFrom the 18th century, Western thinkers and artists continued to engage in the retrospective tradition, that is \"the conscious search in history for a more deeply expressive, permanent human nature and cultural structure in contrast to the nascent modern realities\". Their search led them to parts of the world that they believed constituted alternatives to modern civilization.\n\nThe invention of the steamboat and other innovations in global transportation in the 19th century brought the indigenous cultures of the European colonies and their artifacts into metropolitan centres of empire. Many western-trained artists and connoisseurs were fascinated by these objects, attributing their features and styles to \"primitive\" forms of expression; especially the perceived absence of linear perspective, simple outlines, the presence of symbolic signs such as the hieroglyph, emotive distortions of the figure, and the perceived energetic rhythms resulting from the use of repetitive ornamental pattern. According to recent cultural critics, it was primarily the cultures of Africa and the Oceanic islands that provided artists an answer to what these critics call their \"white, Western, and preponderantly male quest\" for the \"elusive ideal\" of the primitive, \"whose very condition of desirability resides in some form of distance and difference.\" These energizing stylistic attributes, present in the visual arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Indians of the Americas, could also be found in the archaic and peasant art of Europe and Asia, as well.\n\nPainter Paul Gauguin sought to escape European civilization and technology, taking up residence in the French colony of Tahiti and adopted a stripped-back lifestyle which he felt to be more natural than was possible in Europe.\n\nGauguin's search for the primitive was manifestly a desire for sexual freedom, and this is reflected in such paintings as \"The Spirit of the Dead Keeps Watch\" (1892), \"Parau na te Varua ino\" (1892), \"Anna the Javanerin\" (1893), \"Te Tamari No Atua\" (1896), and \"Cruel Tales\" (1902), among others. Gauguin's view of Tahiti as an earthly Arcadia of free love, gentle climate, and naked nymphs is quite similar, if not identical, to that of the classical pastoral of academic art, which has shaped Western perceptions of rural life for millennia. One of his Tahitian paintings is called \"Tahitian Pastoral\" and another \"Where Do We Come From\". In this way Gauguin extended the academic pastoral tradition of Beaux Arts schools which had hitherto been based solely on idealized European figures copied from Ancient Greek sculpture to include non-European models.\n\nGauguin also believed he was celebrating Tahitian society and defending the Tahitians against European colonialism. Feminist postcolonial critics, however, decry the fact that Gauguin took adolescent mistresses, one of them as young as thirteen. They remind us that like many European men of his time and later, Gauguin saw freedom, especially sexual freedom, strictly from the male colonizer's point of view. Using Gauguin as an example of what is \"wrong\" with primitivism, these critics conclude that, in their view, elements of primitivism include the \"dense interweave of racial and sexual fantasies and power both colonial and patriarchal\". To these critics, primitivism such as Gauguin's demonstrates fantasies about racial and sexual difference in \"an effort to essentialize notions of primitiveness\" with \"Otherness\". Thus, they contend, primitivism becomes a process analogous to Exoticism and Orientalism, as critqued by Edward Said, in which European imperialism and monolithic and degrading views of the \"East\" by the \"West\" defined colonized peoples and their cultures.\n\nIn 1905-06, a small group of artists began to study art from Sub-Saharan Africa and Oceania, in part because of the compelling works of Paul Gauguin that were gaining visibility in Paris. Gauguin's powerful posthumous retrospective exhibitions at the Salon d'Automne in Paris in 1903 and an even larger one in 1906 exerted a strong influence. Artists including Maurice de Vlaminck, André Derain, Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso grew increasingly intrigued and inspired by the select objects they encountered. \n\nPablo Picasso, in particular, explored Iberian sculpture, African sculpture, African traditional masks, and other historical works including the Mannerist paintings of El Greco, resulting in his masterpiece \"Les Demoiselles D'Avignon\" and, eventually, the invention of Cubism.\n\nThe generalizing term \"primitivism\" tends to obscure the distinct contributions to modern art from these various visual traditions.\n\nAlthough primitivism in art is usually regarded as a Western phenomenon, the structure of primitivist idealism can be found in the work of non-Western and especially anticolonial artists. The desire to recover a notional and idealized past in which humans had been at one with nature is here connected to a critique of the impact of Western modernity on colonized societies. These artists often critique Western stereotypes about \"primitive\" colonized peoples at the same time as they yearn to recover pre-colonial modes of experience. Anticolonialism fuses with primitivism's reverse teleology to produce art that is distinct from the primitivism of Western artists which usually reinforces rather than critiques colonial stereotypes.\n\nThe work of artists connected with the Négritude movement in particular demonstrates this tendency. \"Négritude\" was a movement of neo-African idealism and political agitation that was begun by francophone intellectuals and artists on both sides of the Atlantic in the 1930s, and which spread across Africa and the African diaspora in subsequent years. They self-consciously idealized pre-colonial Africa, something that took many forms. This typically consisted in rejecting overweening European rationalism and the associated ravages of colonialism while positing pre-colonial African societies as having had a more communal and organic basis. The work of the Cuban artist Wifredo Lam is particularly notable among the visual artists of negritude. Lam met Pablo Picasso and the European surrealists while living in Paris in the 1930s. When he returned to Cuba in 1941, Lam was emboldened to create images in which humans, animals, and nature combined in lush and dynamic tableaux. In his iconic work of 1943, \"The Jungle\", Lam's characteristic polymorphism recreates a fantastical jungle scene with African motifs between stalks of cane. It vividly captures the way in which negritude's neo-African idealism is connected to a history of plantation slavery centred on the production of sugar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231156", "title": "Richard Pryor", "text": "Richard Pryor\n\nRichard Franklin Lennox Thomas Pryor (December 1, 1940 – December 10, 2005) was an American stand-up comedian, actor, and social critic. Pryor was known for uncompromising examinations of racism and topical contemporary issues, which employed vulgarities and profanity, as well as racial epithets. He reached a broad audience with his trenchant observations and storytelling style, and is widely regarded as one of the greatest and most influential stand-up comedians of all time.\n\nPryor's body of work includes the concert movies and recordings: \"Richard Pryor: Live & Smokin'\" (1971), \"That Nigger's Crazy\" (1974), \"...Is It Something I Said?\" (1975), \"Bicentennial Nigger\" (1976), \"\" (1979), \"\" (1982), and \"\" (1983). As an actor, he starred mainly in comedies such as \"Silver Streak\" (1976), but occasionally in dramas, such as Paul Schrader's \"Blue Collar\" (1978), or action films, such as \"Superman III\" (1983). He collaborated on many projects with actor Gene Wilder. Another frequent collaborator was actor/comedian/writer Paul Mooney.\n\nPryor won an Emmy Award (1973) and five Grammy Awards (1974, 1975, 1976, 1981, and 1982). In 1974, he also won two American Academy of Humor awards and the Writers Guild of America Award. The first-ever Kennedy Center Mark Twain Prize for American Humor was presented to him in 1998. He was listed at number one on Comedy Central's list of all-time greatest stand-up comedians. In 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked him first on its list of the 50 best stand-up comics of all time.\n\nBorn on December 1, 1940 in Peoria, Illinois, Richard Franklin Lennox Thomas Pryor grew up in the brothel run by his grandmother, Marie Carter, where his alcoholic mother, Gertrude L. (née Thomas), was a prostitute. His father, LeRoy \"Buck Carter\" Pryor (June 7, 1915 – September 27, 1968), was a former boxer and hustler. After Gertrude abandoned him when he was ten, Pryor was raised primarily by Marie, a tall, violent woman who would beat him for any of his eccentricities. Pryor was one of four children raised in his grandmother's brothel. He was sexually abused at age seven, and expelled from school at the age of fourteen. While in Peoria, he became a Freemason at a local lodge.\n\nPryor served in the U.S. Army from 1958 to 1960, but spent virtually the entire stint in an army prison. According to a 1999 profile about Pryor in \"The New Yorker\", Pryor was incarcerated for an incident that occurred while he was stationed in West Germany. Angered that a white soldier was overly amused at the racially charged scenes of Douglas Sirk's film \"Imitation of Life\", Pryor and several other black soldiers beat and stabbed him, although not fatally.\n\nPryor was married seven times to five women:\n\nPryor also had relationships with actresses Pam Grier and Margot Kidder. In 2018, Quincy Jones and Jennifer Lee claimed that Pryor had a sexual relationship with Marlon Brando, and that Pryor was open about his bisexuality with his friends. Pryor's daughter Rain later disputed the claim. In his autobiography, Pryor admitted to having a two-week sexual relationship with a transvestite, which he called \"two weeks of being gay\".\n\nPryor had seven children with six different women:\n\nIn 1963, Pryor moved to New York City and began performing regularly in clubs alongside performers such as Bob Dylan and Woody Allen. On one of his first nights, he opened for singer and pianist Nina Simone at New York's Village Gate. Simone recalls Pryor's bout of performance anxiety:\n\nInspired by Bill Cosby, Pryor began as a middlebrow comic, with material far less controversial than what was to come. Soon, he began appearing regularly on television variety shows, such as \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", \"The Merv Griffin Show\", and \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\". His popularity led to success as a comic in Las Vegas. The first five tracks on the 2005 compilation CD \"\", recorded in 1966 and 1967, capture Pryor in this period.\n\nIn September 1967, Pryor had what he described in his autobiography \"Pryor Convictions\" (1995) as an \"epiphany\". He walked onto the stage at the Aladdin Hotel in Las Vegas (with Dean Martin in the audience), looked at the sold-out crowd, exclaimed over the microphone, \"What the fuck am I doing here!?\", and walked off the stage. Afterward, Pryor began working profanity into his act, including the word \"nigger\". His first comedy recording, the eponymous 1968 debut release on the Dove/Reprise label, captures this particular period, tracking the evolution of Pryor's routine. Around this time, his parents died—his mother in 1967 and his father in 1968.\n\nIn 1969, Pryor moved to Berkeley, California, where he immersed himself in the counterculture and rubbed elbows with the likes of Huey P. Newton and Ishmael Reed.\n\nIn the 1970s, Pryor wrote for such television shows as \"Sanford and Son\", \"The Flip Wilson Show\", and a 1973 Lily Tomlin special, for which he shared an Emmy Award. During this period, Pryor tried to break into mainstream television. He also appeared in several popular films, including \"Lady Sings the Blues\" (1972), \"The Mack\" (1973), \"Uptown Saturday Night\" (1974), \"Silver Streak\" (1976), \"Car Wash\" (1976), \"Bingo Long Traveling All-Stars & Motor Kings\" (1976), \"Which Way Is Up?\" (1977), \"Greased Lightning\" (1977), \"Blue Collar\" (1978), \"The Muppet Movie\" (1979).\n\nPryor signed with the comedy-oriented independent record label Laff Records in 1970, and in 1971 recorded his second album, \"Craps (After Hours)\". Two years later, the relatively unknown comedian appeared in the documentary \"Wattstax\" (1972), wherein he riffed on the tragic-comic absurdities of race relations in Watts and the nation. Not long afterward, Pryor sought a deal with a larger label, and he signed with Stax Records in 1973.\n\nWhen his third, breakthrough album, \"That Nigger's Crazy\" (1974), was released, Laff, which claimed ownership of Pryor's recording rights, almost succeeded in getting an injunction to prevent the album from being sold. Negotiations led to Pryor's release from his Laff contract. In return for this concession, Laff was enabled to release previously unissued material, recorded between 1968 and 1973, at will. \"That Nigger's Crazy\" was a commercial and critical success; it was eventually certified gold by the RIAA and won the Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album at the 1975 Grammy Awards.\n\nDuring the legal battle, Stax briefly closed its doors. At this time, Pryor returned to Reprise/Warner Bros. Records, which re-released \"That Nigger's Crazy\", immediately after \"...Is It Something I Said?\", his first album with his new label. Like \"That Nigger's Crazy\", the album was a hit with both critics and fans; it was eventually certified platinum by the RIAA and won the Grammy Award for Best Comedy Recording at the 1976 Grammy Awards.\n\nPryor's release \"Bicentennial Nigger\" (1976) continued his streak of success. It became his third consecutive gold album, and he collected his third consecutive Grammy for Best Comedy Recording for the album in 1977. With every successful album Pryor recorded for Warner (or later, his concert films and his 1980 freebasing accident), Laff quickly published an album of older material to capitalize on Pryor's growing fame—a practice they continued until 1983. The covers of Laff albums tied in thematically with Pryor movies, such as \"Are You Serious?\" for \"Silver Streak\" (1976), \"The Wizard of Comedy\" for his appearance in \"The Wiz\" (1978), and \"Insane\" for \"Stir Crazy\" (1980).\nPryor co-wrote \"Blazing Saddles\" (1974), directed by Mel Brooks and starring Gene Wilder. Pryor was to play the lead role of Bart, but the film's production studio would not insure him, and Mel Brooks chose Cleavon Little, instead. Before his horribly damaging 1980 freebasing incident, Pryor was about to start filming Mel Brooks' \"History of the World, Part I\" (1981), but was replaced at the last minute by Gregory Hines. Pryor was also originally considered for the role of Billy Ray Valentine on \"Trading Places\" (1983), before Eddie Murphy won the part.\n\nIn 1975, Pryor was a guest host on the first season of \"Saturday Night Live\" and the first black person to host the show. Pryor took longtime girlfriend, actress-talk show host Kathrine McKee (sister of Lonette McKee), with him to New York, and she made a brief guest appearance with Pryor on \"SNL\". He participated in the \"word association\" skit with Chevy Chase. He would later do his own variety show,\"The Richard Pryor Show\", which premiered on NBC in 1977. The show was cancelled after only four episodes probably because television audiences did not respond well to his show's controversial subject matter, and Pryor was unwilling to alter his material for network censors. During the short-lived series, he portrayed the first black President of the United States, spoofed the \"Star Wars\" Mos Eisley cantina, took on gun violence, and in another skit, used costumes and visual distortion to appear nude.\n\nIn 1979, at the height of his success, Pryor visited Africa. Upon returning to the United States, Pryor swore he would never use the word \"nigger\" in his stand-up comedy routine again.\n\nLate in the evening of June 9, 1980, during the making of the film \"Stir Crazy\", and after days of freebasing cocaine, Pryor poured 151-proof rum all over himself and lit himself on fire. While ablaze, he ran down Parthenia Street from his Los Angeles home, until being subdued by police. He was taken to a hospital, where he was treated for second- and third-degree burns covering more than half of his body. Pryor spent six weeks in recovery at the Grossman Burn Center at Sherman Oaks Hospital. His daughter, Rain, stated that the incident happened as a result of a bout of drug-induced psychosis.\n\nPryor incorporated a description of the incident into his comedy show \"\" (1982). He joked that the event was caused by dunking a cookie into a glass of low-fat and pasteurized milk, causing an explosion. At the end of the bit, he poked fun at people who told jokes about it by waving a lit match and saying, \"What's that? Richard Pryor running down the street.\"\n\nAfter his \"final performance\", Pryor did not stay away from stand-up comedy long. Within a year, he filmed and released a new concert film and accompanying album, \"\" (1983), which he directed himself. He also wrote and directed a fictionalized account of his life, \"Jo Jo Dancer, Your Life Is Calling\" (1986), which revolved around the 1980 freebasing incident.\n\nIn 1983, Pryor signed a five-year contract with Columbia Pictures for $40 million and he started his own production company, Indigo Productions. Softer, more formulaic films followed, including \"Superman III\" (1983), which earned Pryor $4 million; \"Brewster's Millions\" (1985), \"Moving\" (1988), and \"See No Evil, Hear No Evil\" (1989). The only film project from this period that recalled his rough roots was Pryor's semiautobiographic debut as a writer-director, \"Jo Jo Dancer, Your Life Is Calling\" (1986), which was not a major success.\n\nDespite a reputation for constantly using profanity on and off camera, Pryor briefly hosted a children's show on CBS called \"Pryor's Place\" (1984). Like \"Sesame Street\", \"Pryor's Place\" featured a cast of puppets, hanging out and having fun in a surprisingly friendly inner-city environment along with several children and characters portrayed by Pryor himself. However, \"Pryor's Place\" frequently dealt with more sobering issues than \"Sesame Street\". It was cancelled shortly after its debut, despite the efforts of famed puppeteers Sid and Marty Krofft and a theme song by Ray Parker, Jr. of \"Ghostbusters\" (1984) fame.\n\nPryor co-hosted the Academy Awards twice and was nominated for an Emmy for a guest role on the television series \"Chicago Hope\". Network censors had warned Pryor about his profanity for the Academy Awards, and after a slip early in the program, a five-second delay was instituted when returning from a commercial break. Pryor is also one of only three \"Saturday Night Live\" hosts to be subjected to a rare five-second delay for his 1975 appearance (along with Sam Kinison in 1986 and Andrew Dice Clay in 1990).\n\nPryor developed a reputation for being demanding and disrespectful on film sets, and for making selfish and difficult requests. In his autobiography \"Kiss Me Like a Stranger\", co-star Gene Wilder says that Pryor was frequently late to the set during filming of \"Stir Crazy\", and that he demanded, among other things, a helicopter to fly him to and from set because he was the star. Pryor was also accused of using allegations of on-set racism to force the hand of film producers into giving him more money:\n\nOne day during our lunch hour in the last week of filming, the craft service man handed out slices of watermelon to each of us. Richard, the whole camera crew, and I sat together in a big sound studio eating a number of watermelon slices, talking and joking. As a gag, some members of the crew used a piece of watermelon as a Frisbee, and tossed it back and forth to each other. One piece of watermelon landed at Richard's feet. He got up and went home. Filming stopped. The next day, Richard announced that he knew very well what the significance of watermelon was. He said that he was quitting show business and would not return to this film. The day after that, Richard walked in, all smiles. I wasn't privy to all the negotiations that went on between Columbia and Richard's lawyers, but the camera operator who had thrown that errant piece of watermelon had been fired that day. I assume now that Richard was using drugs during \"Stir Crazy\".\n\nHe appeared in \"Harlem Nights\" (1989), a comedy-drama crime film starring three generations of black comedians (Pryor, Eddie Murphy, and Redd Foxx).\n\nIn his later years starting in the early to mid-1990s, Pryor used a power-operated mobility scooter due to multiple sclerosis (MS, which he said stood for \"More Shit\"). He appears on the scooter in his last film appearance, a small role in David Lynch's \"Lost Highway\" (1997) playing an auto-repair garage manager named Arnie.\n\nRhino Records remastered all of Pryor's Reprise and WB albums for inclusion in the box set \"...And It's Deep Too! The Complete Warner Bros. Recordings\" (2000).\n\nIn early 2000, Pryor appeared in the cold open of \"The Norm Show\" in the episode entitled \"Norm vs. The Boxer\". He played an elderly man in a wheelchair who lost the rights to in-home nursing when he kept attacking the nurses before attacking Norm himself.\n\nIn 2002, Pryor and his wife/manager, Jennifer Lee Pryor, won legal rights to all the Laff material, which amounted to almost 40 hours of reel-to-reel analog tape. After going through the tapes and getting Richard's blessing, Jennifer Lee Pryor gave Rhino Records access to the tapes in 2004. These tapes, including the entire \"Craps\" album, form the basis of the February 1, 2005, double-CD release \"\".\n\nIn November 1977, after many years of heavy smoking and drinking, Pryor suffered a mild heart attack. He recovered and resumed performing by January the following year. He was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in 1986. In 1990, Pryor suffered a second heart attack while in Australia. He underwent triple heart bypass surgery in 1991.\n\nIn late 2004, his sister said he had lost his voice as a result of his multiple sclerosis. However, on January 9, 2005, Pryor's wife, Jennifer Lee, rebutted this statement in a post on Pryor's official website, citing Richard as saying: \"I'm sick of hearing this shit about me not talking... not true... I have good days, bad days... but I still am a talkin' motherfucker!\"\n\nOn December 10, 2005, nine days after his 65th birthday, Pryor suffered a heart attack in Los Angeles. He was taken to a local hospital after his wife's attempts to resuscitate him failed. He was pronounced dead at 7:58 am PST. His widow Jennifer was quoted as saying, \"At the end, there was a smile on his face.\" He was cremated, and his ashes were given to his family. Forensic pathologist Michael Hunter believes Pryor's fatal heart attack was caused by coronary artery disease that was at least partially brought about by years of tobacco smoking.\n\nJerry Seinfeld called Pryor \"the Picasso of our profession\" and Bob Newhart heralded Pryor as \"the seminal comedian of the last 50 years\". Dave Chappelle said of Pryor, \"You know those, like, evolution charts of man? He was the dude walking upright. Richard was the highest evolution of comedy.\" This legacy can be attributed, in part, to the unusual degree of intimacy Pryor brought to bear on his comedy. As Bill Cosby reportedly once said, \"Richard Pryor drew the line between comedy and tragedy as thin as one could possibly paint it.\"\n\nIn 1998, Pryor won the first Mark Twain Prize for American Humor from the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. According to former Kennedy Center President Lawrence J. Wilker, Pryor was selected as the first recipient of the Prize because \n\nas a stand-up comic, writer, and actor, he struck a chord, and a nerve, with America, forcing it to look at large social questions of race and the more tragicomic aspects of the human condition. Though uncompromising in his wit, Pryor, like Twain, projects a generosity of spirit that unites us. They were both trenchant social critics who spoke the truth, however outrageous.\nIn 2004, Pryor was voted number one on Comedy Central's list of the 100 Greatest Stand-ups of All Time. In a 2005 British poll to find \"The Comedian's Comedian\", Pryor was voted the 10th-greatest comedy act ever by fellow comedians and comedy insiders.\n\nPryor was posthumously awarded the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006.\n\nThe animal rights organization PETA gives out an award in Pryor's name to people who have done outstanding work to alleviate animal suffering. Pryor was active in animal rights and was deeply concerned about the plight of elephants in circuses and zoos.\n\nArtist Preston Jackson created a life-sized bronze statue in dedication to the beloved comedian and named it \"Richard Pryor: More than Just a Comedian\". It was placed at the corner of State and Washington Streets in downtown Peoria, on May 1, 2015, close to the neighborhood in which he grew up with his mother. The unveiling was held Sunday, May 3, 2015.\n\nIn 2002, a television documentary entitled \"The Funny Life of Richard Pryor\" depicted Pryor's life and career. Broadcast in the UK as part of the Channel 4 series \"Kings of Black Comedy\", it was produced, directed and narrated by David Upshal and featured rare clips from Pryor's 1960s stand-up appearances and movies such as \"Silver Streak\" (1976), \"Blue Collar\" (1978), \"\" (1978), and \"Stir Crazy\" (1980). Contributors included George Carlin, Dave Chappelle, Whoopi Goldberg, Ice-T, Paul Mooney, Joan Rivers, and Lily Tomlin. The show tracked down the two cops who had rescued Pryor from his \"freebasing incident\", former managers, and even school friends from Pryor's home town of Peoria, Illinois. In the US, the show went out as part of the \"Heroes of Black Comedy\" series on Comedy Central, narrated by Don Cheadle.\n\nA television documentary, \"!!\" (2003) consisted of archival footage of Pryor's performances and testimonials from fellow comedians, including Dave Chappelle, Denis Leary, Chris Rock, and Wanda Sykes, on Pryor's influence on comedy.\n\nOn December 19, 2005, BET aired a Pryor special, titled \"The Funniest Man Dead or Alive\". It included commentary from fellow comedians, and insight into his upbringing.\n\nA retrospective of Pryor's film work, concentrating on the 1970s, titled \"A Pryor Engagement\", opened at Brooklyn Academy of Music Cinemas for a two-week run in February 2013. Several prolific comedians who have claimed Pryor as an influence include George Carlin, Dave Attell, Martin Lawrence, Dave Chappelle, Chris Rock, Colin Quinn, Patrice O'Neal, Bill Hicks, Sam Kinison, Bill Burr, Louis C.K., Jerry Seinfeld, Jon Stewart, Eddie Murphy, Eddie Griffin, and Eddie Izzard.\n\nOn May 31, 2013, Showtime debuted the documentary \"\" directed by Emmy Award–winning filmmaker Marina Zenovich. The executive producers are Pryor's widow Jennifer Lee Pryor and Roy Ackerman. Interviewees include Dave Chappelle, Whoopi Goldberg, Jesse Jackson, Quincy Jones, George Lopez, Bob Newhart, Richard Pryor, Jr., Lily Tomlin, and Robin Williams.\n\nFrom June 7 to 9, 2013, SiriusXM hosted \"Richard Pryor Radio\", a three-day tribute which featured his stand-up comedy and full live concerts. \"Richard Pryor Radio\" replaced The Foxxhole for the duration of the event.\n\nIn the episode \"Taxes and Death or Get Him to the Sunset Strip\"(2012), the voice of Richard Pryor is played by Eddie Griffin in the satirical TV show \"Black Dynamite\".\n\nA planned biopic, entitled \"Richard Pryor: Is It Something I Said?\", was being produced by Chris Rock and Adam Sandler. The film would have starred Marlon Wayans as the young Pryor. Other actors previously attached include Mike Epps and Eddie Murphy. The film would have been directed by Bill Condon and was still in development with no release date, as of February 2013.\n\nThe biopic remained in limbo, and went through several producers until it was announced in January 2014 that it was being backed by The Weinstein Company with Lee Daniels as director. It was further announced, in August 2014, that the biopic will have Oprah Winfrey as producer and will star Mike Epps as Pryor.\n\nHe is portrayed by Brandon Ford Green in Season 1 Episode 4 \"Sugar and Spice\" of Showtime's \"I'm Dying Up Here\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58109649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58109649", "title": "Rubus Arcticus (grant)", "text": "Rubus Arcticus (grant)\n\nThe Rubus arcticus is an annual cultural grant awarded by the County Council of Norrbotten County. The grant is named after the scientific name for the nagoon, which is the provincial flower of Norrbotten.  \n\nThe grant is a development grant worth 100,000 SEK awarded to professional artists. From 1995 until 1998, it was awarded twice a year, once in the spring and once in the fall, to four artists each time. From 1998 until 2001, it was awarded to eight artists once a year. Since 2001, the grant has been awarded to four artists once a year.\n\n"}
{"id": "36315801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36315801", "title": "Social artistry", "text": "Social artistry\n\nSocial artistry is the attempt to address or recognize a particular social issue using art and creativity. Social artists are people who use creative skills to work with people or organizations in their community to affect change. While a traditional artist uses their creative skills to express their take on the world, a social artist puts their skills to use to help promote and improve communities. Thus, the main aim of a social artist is to improve society as a whole and to help other people find their own means of creative expression.\n\nSocial artists may address issues such as youth alienation or the breakdown of communities. Most commonly, social artists will address these problems by helping people express themselves and find their voice, or by bringing people together and using art to help them to foster an understanding of each other.\n\nSocial artistry can incorporate several different art forms including theatre, poetry, music and visual art. \n\nFindings from 2013 confirm the shift from individual expression to community engagement, or \"from autonomous to socially engaged.\" Lingo and Tepper cite several examples:\n\n"}
{"id": "5024233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5024233", "title": "Tempestarii", "text": "Tempestarii\n\nIn medieval lore, Tempestarii were weather making magicians who dwelt amongst the common people and possessed the power to raise or prevent storms at will. For this reason, anyone reputed as a weather-maker was the subject of respect, fear, and hatred in rural areas.\n\nPerhaps the best known work on tempestarii was a 815 AD piece called \"On Hail and Thunder\" by a bishop, Agobard of Lyon.\n\nSome describe it as a complaint of the irreligious beliefs of his flock, as villagers resented paying tithes to the church, but freely paid a form of insurance against storms to village \"tempestarii\"; but, it was also noted, whenever a supposed weather-maker failed to prevent a storm, he or she would generally suffer the wrath of the populace, being victimised or killed.\n\nA closer examination of Agobard's writing shows that he actually argues against the existence of weather-witches, but acquiesces that the saints of God are able to cause these things by praying with faith. He is more concerned with his flock's misunderstanding that these \"witches\" are obtaining power from the devil, and subsequent eagerness to kill or curse anyone able to work miracles. His key argument is that anyone capable of \"raising a gale\" would be one who has faith in God, a Christian, not a witch, because witches are not able to do such things.\n\"Perhaps the ones who attribute the making of hail to men would say that Moses reached his staff up to heaven and in this sense the storm was sent by human agency. Certainly Moses, the servant of God, was good and righteous, but these people do not dare to say that the so-called ‘storm-makers’ are good and righteous, but rather evil and unrighteous, deserving of both temporal and eternal condemnation, nor are they servants of God, except perhaps by circumstance rather than willing service. For if there were men who could cause hail, in imitation of Moses, they would surely be servants of God, not servants of the devil; although the passages cited above show that neither servants of God nor those of the devil cause of hail, but only omnipotent God...\n\n...not like these half-faithful of ours, who, as soon as they hear thunder, or when there is a breath of light wind, say ‘a gale is raised’ and curse, saying, ‘Cursed be the tongue that did these things, and may it be dried up and now be cut off.’ Pray tell, whom are you cursing? A righteous man or a sinner? For a sinner, partly unbelieving like you, cannot raise a gale, as you put it, because he is not able to by his own strength, nor can he command evil angels (nor do evil angels even have power in these matters).\" \nAgobard of Lyons also referenced a related belief amongst his parishioners—a belief that \"tempestarii\" were in league with a mythical race of cloud-dwellers who came from a land named 'Magonia' (\"Land of Magic\", \"Land of Thieves\"). The Magonians were supposed to sail the skies in storm clouds; they would then pay Frankish \"tempestarii\" to summon up storms over farmlands, during which the Magonians could swoop down and steal the corn from the fields. On the particular occasion which prompted Agobard to write, several supposed Magonians had been taken prisoner by irate villagers shortly after a bad storm; the Bishop had been forced to intervene and debate with the villagers in order to save the prisoners' lives.\n\nDuring the witch hunts the belief in witches who could raise storms was not limited to the Tempestarii. Depending on a witch's preference, they were believed to cause tempests, hailstorms, and lightning. Witches struck homes and crops alike, sank ships, killed men and animals, and it was believed they took great delight in the process. Church authorities gave credence to the belief by stating that God permitted the Devil and witches to perform these acts as punishment for the wickedness of the world.\n\nSince ancient times around the world, the ability to control elements—including the raising of storms and causing rain—has been attributed to magicians, shamans, sorcerers, and witches. As early as 700 A.D., the Catholic Church prosecuted sorcerers for causing storms.\n\nThe most famous storm believed to be caused by witches was recorded in 1591 during the North Berwick Witch Trials. John Fian and his alleged coven of witches were accused of raising a sea storm to drown James VI and Queen Anne on their way from Denmark.\n\nOn the Tempestarii and Magonia see Valerie I. J. Flint, \"The Rise of Magic in Early Medieval Europe\", Princeton Univ. Press, 1991, p. 112.\n\nThe Catholic Church prohibited superstitious remedies against witchcraft such as storm raising because the remedies themselves were of pagan origin. Prayer, sacraments, and the invocation of the name of God were prescribed instead with the belief that a person who had strong faith in God, kept the commandments, and revered the rites of the Church would be immune from storms and tempests raised by malicious witches.\n\nBecause many peasants were reluctant to give up their superstitions as being false, the church also sanctioned remedies like the ringing of church bells, believed to drive storm devils away, and placing charms made from flowers consecrated on Palm Sunday in the crop fields. It was believed that if a storm did strike after the charm was placed, the owner's crops would be protected even if the surrounding land and crops were destroyed.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "659827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659827", "title": "The Short North", "text": "The Short North\n\nThe Short North is a neighborhood in Columbus, Ohio, United States, centered on the main strip of High Street immediately north of downtown and extending until just south of the Ohio State University campus area. It is an easy walk from the convention center or Nationwide Arena district to the south. The Short North is often crowded on weekends, particularly during the monthly \"Gallery Hop\" and other local and downtown events.\n\nThe Short North has been described as \"colorful\", \"offbeat\", and \"trendy\". The district is heavily populated with art galleries, specialty shops, pubs, nightclubs, and coffee houses. Most of its tightly packed brick buildings date from at least the early 20th century, with traditional storefronts along High Street (often with brightly painted murals on their side walls), and old apartment buildings and rowhouses and newer condominium developments in the surrounding blocks. The city installed 17 lighted metal archways extending across High Street throughout the Short North, reminiscent of such arches present in the area in the early 1900s.\n\nThe area is also known to be a very gay- and lesbian-friendly neighborhood which contains numerous gay nightclubs and bars and hosts the annual Columbus gay pride parade\n\nThe name \"Short North\" traces its roots back to the vernacular used by police for the area during a period of decline, namely as the neighborhood that—from a suburban commuter's perspective—had fallen 'just short' of the central business district's north end—both physically and economically. A reputation for diversity and an artistic, Bohemian atmosphere has marked the Short North, with land prices and local rents rising steadily from the humble beginnings as a squatter’s neighborhood in the 1980s. Prior to this gentrification of the neighborhood which originated from artists, it had suffered prolonged decay and from latent, street-level crime and gang violence as Columbus affluent residents followed the economic bubble outward—into the suburbs—during the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nThe 1980s saw the neighborhood's rebirth enter into full gear as galleries began to open up and started to flourish. As Maria Gallowy owner of pm gallery the oldest gallery in the Short North once put it \"It was one of those neighborhoods that artists love to move into because the possibilities are there.\" In 1984 two Short North area galleries —the now defunct Art Reach and the still thriving pm gallery— began opening new exhibits on the first Saturday of every month to help cross-promote their businesses and build a more unified community. This loose coordination later evolved into the Gallery Hop which is still held every first Saturday of the month. The Gallery Hop today features most businesses keeping their doors open late into the night, jam-packed streets, and sidewalks populated with street musicians and other performers.\n\nSince 1983, the Short North has also hosted the annual Doo Dah Parade, a parody of typical Fourth of July parades that includes politically slanted paraders and floats as well as absurdities such as the \"Marching Fidels,\" a band of Fidel Castro lookalikes. The parade starts in neighboring Victorian Village, at Goodale Park, and winds north to finish coming south down High Street.\n\nThe Short North also hosts HighBall Halloween, Masquerade on High, a fashion show and street parade that closes down High Street. In 2011, in its 4th year, HighBall Halloween gained notoriety as it accepted its first Expy award. HighBall Halloween has much to offer for those interested in fashion and the performing and visual arts or for those who want to celebrate Halloween and with food and drinks from all around the city. Each year the event is put on with a different theme and it increases in size and popularity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21342679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21342679", "title": "The arts and politics", "text": "The arts and politics\n\nA strong relationship between the arts and politics, particularly between various kinds of art and power, occurs across historical epochs and cultures. As they respond to contemporaneous events and politics, the arts take on political as well as social dimensions, becoming themselves a focus of controversy and even a force of political as well as social change.\n\nA widespread observation is that a great talent has a free spirit. For instance Pushkin, who some scholars regard as Russia's first great writer, attracted the mad irritation of the Russian officialdom and particularly of the Tsar, since he \"instead of being a good servant of the state in the rank and file of the administration and extolling conventional virtues in his vocational writings (if write he must), composed extremely arrogant and extremely independent and extremely wicked verse in which a dangerous freedom of thought was evident in the novelty of his versification, in the audacity of his sensual fancy, and in his propensity for making fun of major and minor tyrants.\"\n\nAccording to Groys, \"Art has its own power in the world, and is as much a force in the power play of global politics today as it once was in the arena of cold war politics.\"\n\nPertaining to such politically-intractable phenomena as the Modern conflicts in the Middle East, however, some artists and social critics believe that \"art is useless as a tool for political change.\" There are, nevertheless, examples where artists employ art in the service of political change.\n\nThe Italian poet Ungaretti, when interviewed on transgression by director Pasolini for the 1964 \"Love Meetings\" documentary, said that the foundation of poetry is to transgress all laws: \"I am a poet and as such I begin transgressing all the laws by doing poetry\".\n\nThe Situationist International (SI), a small group of international political and artistic agitators with roots in Marxism, Lettrism and the early 20th-century European artistic and political avant-gardes formed in 1957, aspired to major social and political transformations; before disbanding in 1972 and splitting into a number of different groups, including the Situationist Bauhaus, the Antinational, and the Second Situationist International, the first SI became active in Europe through the 1960s and elsewhere throughout the world and was characterized by an anti-capitalist and surrealist perspective on aesthetics and politics, according to Italian art historian Francesco Poli. In the works of the situationists, Italian scholar Mirella Bandini observes, there is no separation between art and politics; the two confront each other in revolutionary terms .\n\nHistorically, revolutionary ideas have emerged first among artists and intellectuals. That's why a precise mechanism to defuse the role of artists and intellectuals is to relegate them into specialized, compartmentalized disciplines, in order to impose unnatural dichotomies as the \"separation of art from politics\". Once artistic-intellectual works are separated from current events and from a comprehensive critique of society, they are sterilized and can be safely integrated into the official culture and the public discourse, where they can add new flavours to old dominant ideas and play the role of a gear wheel in the mechanism of the society of the spectacle.\n\n\"Not content with claiming leftwing music\", posters for the Conservative Party in the UK recycled iconic art styles of \"socialist revolution\" to communicate its political message in 2008.\n\nCzech sculptor David Černý's \"Entropa\", a sculpture commissioned to mark the Czech presidency of the European Union Council during the first semester of 2009, illustrates how art can come into conflict with politics, creating various kinds of controversy in the process, both intentionally and unintentionally. \"Entropa\" attracted controversy both for its stereotyped depictions of the various EU member states and for having been a creation of Černý and two friends rather than, as Černý purported, a collaboration of 27 artists from each of the member states. Some EU members states reacted negatively to the depiction of their country, with Bulgaria, for instance, deciding to summon the Czech Ambassador to Sofia in order to discuss the illustration of the Balkan country as a collection of squat toilets (ČTK). This \"Europe-wide hoax … reveals deeper truths\" not only about the countries but \"about art itself\" (Gavrilova).\n\nAccording to Esti Sheinberg, a lecturer in music at the University of Edinburgh, in her book \"Irony, Satire, Parody and the Grotesque in the Music of Shostakovich\", in \"the traditional Russian perception of the arts\", an \"interrelationship between artistic technique and ideological content is the main aesthetic criterion\" (ix; cf. Blois).\n\nLudwig van Beethoven did not use the original title \"Ode to Freedom\" of Friedrich Schiller's lyric, known in English as \"Ode to Joy\" (1785), in setting it to music in the final movement of his Ninth Symphony (1824), which \"Napoleonic censors had forced the poet to change to 'Ode to Joy'.\" After the fall of the Berlin Wall, on 9 November 1989, that Christmas Day, when Leonard Bernstein conducted a performance of Beethoven's Ninth at the site of the former East German–West German border in Berlin, a concert telecast nationally in the United States, he substituted \"Freedom\" for \"Joy\" to reflect his own \"personal message\".\n\nIn February 1952, the United States Customs Service seized the passport of Paul Robeson, preventing him from leaving the United States to travel to the Fourth Canadian Convention of the International Union of Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; but, after \"The convention heard Robeson sing over the telephone\", the union organized \"a concert on the US-Canada border\". According to the account of the \"Paul Robeson Centennial Celebration\": \"Robeson sang and spoke for 45 minutes. He introduced his first song stating 'I stand here today under great stress because I dare, as do you—all of you, to fight for peace and for a decent life for all men, women and children' … [and, accompanied by Lawrence Brown on piano,] proceeded to sing spirituals, folk songs, labour songs, and a passionate version of Old Man River, written for him in the [1920s], slowly enunciating 'show a little grit and you land in jail', underlining the fact that his government had turned the entire country into a prison for Robeson and many others.\"\n\nIn the 1960s the songs of Pete Seeger, Joan Baez, Bob Dylan, and others protested further racism, war, and the military-industrial complex, continuing an American artistic tradition of political protest founded during its colonial era.\n\nIn force from July 1985 until May 2002 and considered by its opponents a Draconian \"anti-music law\", the Teen Dance Ordinance (TDO), imposing restrictions on clubs admitting those under the legal drinking age of 21 in Seattle, Washington, was still the subject of protracted political and legal opposition in U.S. Federal Court in early 2002, when a suit filed by the Joint Artists and Music Promotions Action Committee (JAMPAC) in 2000 was still being adjudicated. In May 2002, Judge Lasnik ruled for the City of Seattle on JAMPAC's suit, finding no Constitutional infringement of the First Amendment and deciding that the matter is a political one for the Seattle City Council to decide, not the courts; during the course of the suit, Mayor Schell's successor, Greg Nickels, a proponent of the bill, resubmitted the ordinance to the Seattle City Council, and, on 12 August 2002, the new All-Ages Dance Ordinance (AADO) replaced the TDO, but was not considered much of an improvement by its critics.\n\nIn May 2008 a \"Promoters Ordinance\" proposed by the Chicago City Council aroused opposition in Chicago, Illinois, for being regarded as overly restrictive and stifling free expression.\n\nFollowing the implementation of the Licensing Act 2003, the London Borough of Hillingdon cited \"the interest of public order and the prevention of terrorism\" as reasons for expecting promoters of live music events to complete the Metropolitan Police's Form 696. Though later clarified by a police spokesperson as not \"\", the perceived \"demand\" for the information solicited on such \"risk assessment\" forms motivated Jon McClure, lead singer with Reverend and The Makers, to post an electronic petition in the \"E-Petitions\" section of the official website of Gordon Brown, the UK Prime Minister, at Number10.gov.uk, in order to facilitate protest against what McClure alleges is \"racial discrimination\" occasioned by such bureaucratic constraints, which some have deemed \"police authoritarianism\". It begins: \"We the undersigned petition the Prime Minister to Scrap the unnecessary and draconian usage of the 696 Form from London music events\". By 11 November 2008, according to Orlowski, \"A dozen London boroughs [had] implemented a 'risk assessment' [Form 696] policy for live music that permits the police to ban any live music if they fail to receive personal details from the performers 14 days in advance.\" Orlowski points out: The demand explicitly singles out performances and musical styles favoured by the black community: garage and R&B, and MCs and DJs. ... However all musical performances – from one man playing a guitar on up – are subject to the demands once implemented by the council. And the threat is serious: failure to comply 'may jeopardise future events by the promoter or the venue'. ... UK Music chief Feargal Sharkey ... speaking to the Department of Culture Media and Sport's hearing on venue licensing today [11 Nov. 2008] [concluded that] ... 'Live music is now a threat to the prevention of terrorism'. ... In response, Detective Superintendent Dave Eyles from the Met's clubs and vice office told us that 10,000 such Risk Assessments would be processed this year. He said they weren't : ... 'We can't demand it – we recommend that you provide it as best practice. But you're bloody silly if you don't, because you're putting your venue at risk.' By early March 2009, over 16,000 British citizens or residents had signed McClure's E-Petition, which remained open to potential signatories until 1 December 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "15584433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15584433", "title": "Vila Madalena", "text": "Vila Madalena\n\nVila Madalena is an upper middle class neighborhood of the Pinheiros district in the western part of the city of São Paulo, Brazil. The neighborhood is known for its bustling nightlife and its history as a center of São Paulo bohemian culture and art. The neighborhood is filled with dozens of art galleries and studios, an eclectic mix of restaurants and bars and a series of graffiti-covered streets and alleys, and is attracting young professionals.\n"}
{"id": "1929987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1929987", "title": "Whittling", "text": "Whittling\n\nWhittling may refer either to the art of carving shapes out of raw wood using a knife or a time-occupying, non-artistic (contrast wood carving for artistic process) process of repeatedly shaving slivers from a piece of wood.\n\nCasual whittling is typically performed with a light, small-bladed knife, usually a pocket knife. Specialized whittling knives, with fixed single blades, are preferred for sculpting artistic work. They have thick handles which are easier to grip for long periods and have better leverage, allowing more precise control and pressure.\n\nOccasionally the terms \"whittling\" and \"carving\" are used interchangeably, but they are different arts. Carving employs the use of chisels, gouges, with or without a mallet, while whittling involves only the use of a knife. Carving frequently involves powered equipment such as lathes.\n\nIn industrialized areas of the world, whittling is mainly a hobby and not an occupational activity as it was before powered wood working equipment enabled modern production.\n\n\"Splash whittling\" is a historical, decorative technique in Norway using an ax to create a herringbone pattern.\n\nIt's a good idea to protect your thumb with a leather thimble, and your holding hand with a cut-resistant glove.\n\nWhile any type of wood can be used for whittling, there are woods which are easier to work with and whittle better than others. Soft woods with a small grain, such as basswood, are easier to whittle and are relatively inexpensive. Hardwoods are more difficult to whittle.\n\n"}
{"id": "33959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33959", "title": "Witchcraft", "text": "Witchcraft\n\nWitchcraft or witchery broadly means the practice of and belief in magical skills and abilities exercised by solitary practitioners and groups. \"Witchcraft\" is a broad term that varies culturally and societally, and thus can be difficult to define with precision, and cross-cultural assumptions about the meaning or significance of the term should be applied with caution. Witchcraft often occupies a religious divinatory or medicinal role, and is often present within societies and groups whose cultural framework includes a magical world view.\n\nThe concept of witchcraft and the belief in its existence have persisted throughout recorded history. They have been present or central at various times and in many diverse forms among cultures and religions worldwide, including both \"primitive\" and \"highly advanced\" cultures, and continue to have an important role in many cultures today. Scientifically, the existence of magical powers and witchcraft are generally believed to lack credence and to be unsupported by high-quality experimental testing, although individual witchcraft practices and effects may be open to scientific explanation or explained via mentalism and psychology.\n\nHistorically, the predominant concept of witchcraft in the Western world derives from Old Testament laws against witchcraft, and entered the mainstream when belief in witchcraft gained Church approval in the Early Modern Period. It posits a theosophical conflict between good and evil, where witchcraft was generally evil and often associated with the Devil and Devil worship. This culminated in deaths, torture and scapegoating (casting blame for human misfortune), and many years of large scale witch-trials and witch hunts, especially in Protestant Europe, before largely ceasing during the European Age of Enlightenment. Christian views in the modern day are diverse and cover the gamut of views from intense belief and opposition (especially from Christian fundamentalists) to non-belief, and in some churches even approval. From the mid-20th century, witchcraft – sometimes called contemporary witchcraft to clearly distinguish it from older beliefs – became the name of a branch of modern paganism. It is most notably practiced in the Wiccan and modern witchcraft traditions, and no longer practices in secrecy.\n\nThe Western mainstream Christian view is far from the only societal perspective about witchcraft. Many cultures worldwide continue to have widespread practices and cultural beliefs that are loosely translated into English as \"witchcraft\", although the English translation masks a very great diversity in their forms, magical beliefs, practices, and place in their societies. During the Age of Colonialism, many cultures across the globe were exposed to the modern Western world via colonialism, usually accompanied and often preceded by intensive Christian missionary activity \"(see \"Christianization\")\". Beliefs related to witchcraft and magic in these cultures were at times influenced by the prevailing Western concepts. Witch hunts, scapegoating, and killing or shunning of suspected witches still occurs in the modern era, with killings both of victims for their supposedly magical body parts, and of suspected witchcraft practitioners.\n\nSuspicion of modern medicine due to beliefs about illness being due to witchcraft also continues in many countries to this day, with tragic healthcare consequences. HIV/AIDS and Ebola virus disease are two examples of often-lethal infectious disease epidemics whose medical care and containment has been severely hampered by regional beliefs in witchcraft. Other severe medical conditions whose treatment is hampered in this way include tuberculosis, leprosy, epilepsy and the common severe bacterial Buruli ulcer. Public healthcare often requires considerable education work related to epidemology and modern health knowledge in many parts of the world where belief in witchcraft prevails, to encourage effective preventive health measures and treatments, to reduce victim blaming, shunning and stigmatization, and to prevent the killing of people and endangering of animal species for body parts believed to convey magical abilities.\n\nThe word \"witch\" is of uncertain origin. There are numerous etymologies that it could be derived from. One popular belief is that it is \"related to the English words wit, wise, wisdom [Germanic root *weit-, *wait-, *wit-; Indo-European root *weid-, *woid-, *wid-],\" so \"craft of the wise.\" Another is from the Old English wiccecræft, a compound of \"wicce\" (\"witch\") and \"cræft\" (\"craft\").\n\nIn anthropological terminology, witches differ from sorcerers in that they don't use physical tools or actions to curse; their maleficium is perceived as extending from some intangible inner quality, and one may be unaware of being a witch, or may have been convinced of his/her nature by the suggestion of others. This definition was pioneered in a study of central African magical beliefs by E. E. Evans-Pritchard, who cautioned that it might not correspond with normal English usage.\n\nHistorians of European witchcraft have found the anthropological definition difficult to apply to European witchcraft, where witches could equally use (or be accused of using) physical techniques, as well as some who really had attempted to cause harm by thought alone. European witchcraft is seen by historians and anthropologists as an ideology for explaining misfortune; however, this ideology has manifested in diverse ways, as described below.\n\nHistorically the witchcraft label has been applied to practices people believe influence the mind, body, or property of others against their will—or practices that the person doing the labeling believes undermine social or religious order. Some modern commentators believe the malefic nature of witchcraft is a Christian projection. The concept of a magic-worker influencing another person's body or property against their will was clearly present in many cultures, as traditions in both folk magic and religious magic have the purpose of countering malicious magic or identifying malicious magic users. Many examples appear in early texts, such as those from ancient Egypt and Babylonia. Malicious magic users can become a credible cause for disease, sickness in animals, bad luck, sudden death, impotence and other such misfortunes. Witchcraft of a more benign and socially acceptable sort may then be employed to turn the malevolence aside, or identify the supposed evil-doer so that punishment may be carried out. The folk magic used to identify or protect against malicious magic users is often indistinguishable from that used by the witches themselves.\n\nThere has also existed in popular belief the concept of white witches and white witchcraft, which is strictly benevolent. Many neopagan witches strongly identify with this concept, and profess ethical codes that prevent them from performing magic on a person without their request.\n\nWhere belief in malicious magic practices exists, such practitioners are typically forbidden by law as well as hated and feared by the general populace, while beneficial magic is tolerated or even accepted wholesale by the people – even if the orthodox establishment opposes it.\n\nProbably the most widely known characteristic of a witch was the ability to cast a spell, \"spell\" being the word used to signify the means employed to carry out a magical action. A spell could consist of a set of words, a formula or verse, or a ritual action, or any combination of these. Spells traditionally were cast by many methods, such as by the inscription of runes or sigils on an object to give it magical powers; by the immolation or binding of a wax or clay image (poppet) of a person to affect him or her magically; by the recitation of incantations; by the performance of physical rituals; by the employment of magical herbs as amulets or potions; by gazing at mirrors, swords or other specula (scrying) for purposes of divination; and by many other means.\n\nIn Christianity and Islam, sorcery came to be associated with heresy and apostasy and to be viewed as evil. Among the Catholics, Protestants, and secular leadership of the European Late Medieval/Early Modern period, fears about witchcraft rose to fever pitch and sometimes led to large-scale witch-hunts. The key century was the fifteenth, which saw a dramatic rise in awareness and terror of witchcraft, culminating in the publication of the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" but prepared by such fanatical popular preachers as Bernardino of Siena. Throughout this time, it was increasingly believed that Christianity was engaged in an apocalyptic battle against the Devil and his secret army of witches, who had entered into a diabolical pact. In total, tens or hundreds of thousands of people were executed, and others were imprisoned, tortured, banished, and had lands and possessions confiscated. The majority of those accused were women, though in some regions the majority were men. In early modern Scots, the word Warlock came to be used as the male equivalent of witch (which can be male or female, but is used predominantly for females). From this use, the word passed into Romantic literature and ultimately 20th-century popular culture. Accusations of witchcraft were often combined with other charges of heresy against such groups as the Cathars and Waldensians.\n\nThe \"Malleus Maleficarum,\" (Latin for \"Hammer of The Witches\") was a witch-hunting manual written in 1486 by two German monks, Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger. It was used by both Catholics and Protestants for several hundred years, outlining how to identify a witch, what makes a woman more likely than a man to be a witch, how to put a witch on trial, and how to punish a witch. The book defines a witch as evil and typically female. The book became the handbook for secular courts throughout Renaissance Europe, but was not used by the Inquisition, which even cautioned against relying on the work, and was later officially condemned by the Catholic Church in 1490.\n\nIn the modern Western world, witchcraft accusations have often accompanied the satanic ritual abuse moral panic. Such accusations are a counterpart to blood libel of various kinds, which may be found throughout history across the globe.\n\nThroughout the early modern period, the English term \"witch\" was not exclusively negative in meaning, and could also indicate cunning folk. As Alan McFarlane noted, \"There were a number of interchangeable terms for these practitioners, 'white', 'good', or 'unbinding' witches, blessers, wizards, sorcerers, however 'cunning-man' and 'wise-man' were the most frequent.\" The contemporary Reginald Scot explained, \"At this day it is indifferent to say in the English tongue, 'she is a witch' or 'she is a wise woman'\". Folk magicians throughout Europe were often viewed ambivalently by communities, and were considered as capable of harming as of healing, which could lead to their being accused as \"witches\" in the negative sense. Many English \"witches\" convicted of consorting with demons seem to have been cunning folk whose fairy familiars had been demonised; many French \"devins-guerisseurs\" (\"diviner-healers\") were accused of witchcraft, and over one half the accused witches in Hungary seem to have been healers.\n\nSome of the healers and diviners historically accused of witchcraft have considered themselves mediators between the mundane and spiritual worlds, roughly equivalent to shamans. Such people described their contacts with fairies, spirits often involving out-of-body experiences and travelling through the realms of an \"other-world\".\nBeliefs of this nature are implied in the folklore of much of Europe, and were explicitly described by accused witches in central and southern Europe. Repeated themes include participation in processions of the dead or large feasts, often presided over by a horned male deity or a female divinity who teaches magic and gives prophecies; and participation in battles against evil spirits, \"vampires\", or \"witches\" to win fertility and prosperity for the community.\n\nÉva Pócs states that reasons for accusations of witchcraft fall into four general categories:\n\nShe identifies three varieties of witch in popular belief:\n\"Neighbourhood witches\" are the product of neighbourhood tensions, and are found only in self-sufficient serf village communities where the inhabitants largely rely on each other. Such accusations follow the breaking of some social norm, such as the failure to return a borrowed item, and any person part of the normal social exchange could potentially fall under suspicion. Claims of \"sorcerer\" witches and \"supernatural\" witches could arise out of social tensions, but not exclusively; the supernatural witch in particular often had nothing to do with communal conflict, but expressed tensions between the human and supernatural worlds; and in Eastern and Southeastern Europe such supernatural witches became an ideology explaining calamities that befell entire communities.\n\nBelief in witchcraft continues to be present today in some societies and accusations of witchcraft are the trigger of serious forms of violence, including murder. Such incidents are common in places such as Burkina Faso, Ghana, India, Kenya, Malawi, Nepal and Tanzania. Accusations of witchcraft are sometimes linked to personal disputes, jealousy, and conflicts between neighbors or family over land or inheritance. Witchcraft-related violence is often discussed as a serious issue in the broader context of violence against women.\n\nIn Tanzania, about 500 older women are murdered each year following accusations against them of witchcraft or of being a witch. Apart from extrajudicial violence, there is also state-sanctioned violence in some jurisdictions. For instance, in Saudi Arabia practicing witchcraft and sorcery is a crime punishable by death and the country has executed people for this crime in 2011, 2012 and 2014.\n\nChildren in some regions of the world, such as parts of Africa, are also vulnerable to violence related to witchcraft accusations. Such incidents have also occurred in immigrant communities in the UK, including the much publicized case of the murder of Victoria Climbié.\n\nModern practices identified by their practitioners as \"witchcraft\" have grown dramatically since the early 20th century. Generally portrayed as revivals of pre-Christian European ritual and spirituality, they are understood to involve varying degrees of magic, shamanism, folk medicine, spiritual healing, calling on elementals and spirits, veneration of ancient deities and archetypes, and attunement with the forces of nature.\n\nThe first Neopagan groups to publicly appear, during the 1950s and 60s, were Gerald Gardner's Bricket Wood coven and Roy Bowers' Clan of Tubal Cain. They operated as initiatory secret societies. Other individual practitioners and writers such as Paul Huson also claimed inheritance to surviving traditions of witchcraft.\n\nDuring the 20th century, interest in witchcraft in English-speaking and European countries began to increase, inspired particularly by Margaret Murray's theory of a pan-European witch-cult originally published in 1921, since discredited by further careful historical research. Interest was intensified, however, by Gerald Gardner's claim in 1954 in \"Witchcraft Today\" that a form of witchcraft still existed in England. The truth of Gardner's claim is now disputed too, with different historians offering evidence for or against the religion's existence prior to Gardner.\n\nThe Wicca that Gardner initially taught was a witchcraft religion having a lot in common with Margaret Murray's hypothetically posited cult of the 1920s. Indeed, Murray wrote an introduction to Gardner's \"Witchcraft Today\", in effect putting her stamp of approval on it. Wicca is now practised as a religion of an initiatory secret society nature with positive ethical principles, organised into autonomous covens and led by a High Priesthood. There is also a large \"Eclectic Wiccan\" movement of individuals and groups who share key Wiccan beliefs but have no initiatory connection or affiliation with traditional Wicca. Wiccan writings and ritual show borrowings from a number of sources including 19th and 20th-century ceremonial magic, the medieval grimoire known as the Key of Solomon, Aleister Crowley's Ordo Templi Orientis and pre-Christian religions. Both men and women are equally termed \"witches.\" They practice a form of duotheistic universalism.\n\nSince Gardner's death in 1964, the Wicca that he claimed he was initiated into has attracted many initiates, becoming the largest of the various witchcraft traditions in the Western world, and has influenced other Neopagan and occult movements.\n\nWiccan literature has been described as aiding the empowerment of young women through its lively portrayal of female protagonists. Part of the recent growth in Neo-Pagan religions has been attributed to the strong media presence of fictional works such as the Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Harry Potter series with their depictions of witchcraft. Widespread accessibility to related material through internet media such as chat rooms and forums is also thought to be driving this development. Wiccan beliefs are currently often found to be compatible with liberal ideals such as the Green movement, and particularly with feminism by providing young women with means for empowerment and for control of their own lives. This is the case particularly in North America due to the strong presence of feminist ideals. The 2002 study Enchanted Feminism: The Reclaiming Witches of San Francisco suggests that Wiccan religion represents the second wave of feminism that has also been redefined as a religious movement.\n\nStregheria is an Italian witchcraft religion popularised in the 1980s by Raven Grimassi, who claims that it evolved within the ancient Etruscan religion of Italian peasants who worked under the Catholic upper classes.\n\nModern Stregheria closely resembles Charles Leland's controversial late-19th-century account of a surviving Italian religion of witchcraft, worshipping the Goddess Diana, her brother Dianus/Lucifer, and their daughter Aradia. Leland's witches do not see Lucifer as the evil Satan that Christians see, but a benevolent god of the Sun and Moon).\n\nThe ritual format of contemporary Stregheria is roughly similar to that of other Neopagan witchcraft religions such as Wicca. The pentagram is the most common symbol of religious identity. Most followers celebrate a series of eight festivals equivalent to the Wiccan Wheel of the Year, though others follow the ancient Roman festivals. An emphasis is placed on ancestor worship.\n\nTraditional witchcraft is a term used to refer to a variety of contemporary forms of witchcraft. Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White described it as \"a broad movement of aligned magico-religious groups who reject any relation to Gardnerianism and the wider Wiccan movement, claiming older, more \"traditional\" roots. Although typically united by a shared aesthetic rooted in European folklore, the Traditional Craft contains within its ranks a rich and varied array of occult groups, from those who follow a contemporary Pagan path that is suspiciously similar to Wicca to those who adhere to Luciferianism\". According to British Traditional Witch Michael Howard, the term refers to \"any non-Gardnerian, non-Alexandrian, non-Wiccan or pre-modern form of the Craft, especially if it has been inspired by historical forms of witchcraft and folk magic\". Another definition was offered by Daniel A. Schulke, the current Magister of the Cultus Sabbati, when he proclaimed that \"traditional witchcraft\" \"refers to a coterie of initiatory lineages of ritual magic, spellcraft and devotional mysticism\". Some forms of traditional witchcraft are the Feri Tradition, Cochrane's Craft and the Sabbatic craft.\n\nSatanism is a broad term referring to diverse beliefs that share a symbolic association with, or admiration for, Satan, who is seen as a liberating figure. While it is heir to the same historical period and pre-Enlightenment beliefs that gave rise to modern witchcraft, it is generally seen as completely separate from modern witchcraft and Wicca, and has little or no connection to them.\n\nModern witchcraft considers Satanism to be the \"dark side of Christianity\" rather than a branch of Wicca: – the character of Satan referenced in Satanism exists only in the theology of the three Abrahamic religions, and Satanism arose as, and occupies the role of, a rebellious counterpart to Christianity, in which all is permitted and the self is central. (Christianity can be characterized as having the diametrically opposite views to these.) Such beliefs become more visibly expressed in Europe after the Enlightenment, when works such as Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" were described anew by romantics who suggested that they presented the biblical Satan as an allegory representing crisis of faith, individualism, free will, wisdom and enlightenment; a few works from that time also begin to directly present Satan in a less negative light, such as \"Letters from the Earth\". The two major trends are theistic Satanism and atheistic Satanism; the former venerates Satan as a supernatural patriarchal deity, while the latter views Satan as merely a symbolic embodiment of certain human traits.\n\nOrganized groups began to emerge in the mid 20th century, including the Ophite Cultus Satanas (1948) and The Church of Satan (1966). After seeing Margaret Murray's book \"The God of the Witches\" the leader of Ophite Cultus Satanas, Herbert Arthur Sloane, said he realized that the horned god was Satan (\"Sathanas\"). Sloane also corresponded with his contemporary Gerald Gardner, founder of the Wicca religion, and implied that his views of Satan and the horned god were not necessarily in conflict with Gardner's approach. However, he did believe that, while \"gnosis\" referred to knowledge, and \"Wicca\" referred to wisdom, modern witches had fallen away from the true knowledge, and instead had begun worshipping a fertility god, a reflection of the creator god. He wrote that \"the largest existing body of witches who are true Satanists would be the Yezedees\". Sloane highly recommended the book \"The Gnostic Religion\", and sections of it were sometimes read at ceremonies. It was estimated that there were up to 100,000 Satanists worldwide by 2006, twice the number estimated in 1990. Satanistic beliefs have been largely permitted as a valid expression of religious belief in the West. For example, they were allowed in the British Royal Navy in 2004, and an appeal was considered in 2005 for religious status as a right of prisoners by the Supreme Court of the United States. Contemporary Satanism is mainly an American phenomenon, although it began to reach Eastern Europe in the 1990s around the time of the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nLuciferianism, on the other hand, is a belief system and does not revere the devil figure or most characteristics typically affixed to Satan. Rather, Lucifer in this context is seen as one of many morning stars, a symbol of enlightenment, independence and human progression. Madeline Montalban was an English witch who adhered to a specific form of luciferianism which revolved around the veneration of Lucifer, or Lumiel, whom she considered to be a benevolent angelic being who had aided humanity's development. Within her Order, she emphasised that her followers discover their own personal relationship with the angelic beings, including Lumiel. Although initially seeming favourable to Gerald Gardner, by the mid-1960s she had become hostile towards him and his Gardnerian tradition, considering him to be \"a 'dirty old man' and sexual pervert.\" She also expressed hostility to another prominent Pagan Witch of the period, Charles Cardell, although in the 1960s became friends with the two Witches at the forefront of the Alexandrian Wiccan tradition, Alex Sanders and his wife, Maxine Sanders, who adopted some of her Luciferian angelic practices. In contemporary times luciferian witches exist within traditional witchcraft.\n\nThe belief in sorcery and its practice seem to have been widespread in the Ancient Near East and Nile Valley. It played a conspicuous role in the cultures of ancient Egypt and in Babylonia. The latter tradition included an Akkadian anti-witchcraft ritual, the Maqlû. A section from the Code of Hammurabi (about 2000 B.C.) prescribes:\n\nAccording to the New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia: \n\nThe King James Version uses the words \"witch\", \"witchcraft\", and \"witchcrafts\" to translate the Masoretic \"kāsháf\" () and (\"qésem\"); these same English terms are used to translate \"pharmakeia\" in the Greek New Testament. Verses such as and (\"Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live\") thus provided scriptural justification for Christian witch hunters in the early modern period (see Christian views on magic).\n\nThe precise meaning of the Hebrew , usually translated as \"witch\" or \"sorceress\", is uncertain. In the Septuagint, it was translated as \"pharmakeía\" or \"pharmakous\". In the 16th century, Reginald Scot, a prominent critic of the witch trials, translated , φαρμακεία, and the Vulgate's Latin equivalent \"veneficos\" as all meaning \"poisoner\", and on this basis, claimed that \"witch\" was an incorrect translation and poisoners were intended. His theory still holds some currency, but is not widely accepted, and in is listed alongside other magic practitioners who could interpret dreams: magicians, astrologers, and Chaldeans. Suggested derivations of include \"mutterer\" (from a single root) or \"herb user\" (as a compound word formed from the roots \"kash\", meaning \"herb\", and \"hapaleh\", meaning \"using\"). The Greek φαρμακεία literally means \"herbalist\" or one who uses or administers drugs, but it was used virtually synonymously with \"mageia\" and \"goeteia\" as a term for a sorcerer.\n\nThe Bible provides some evidence that these commandments against sorcery were enforced under the Hebrew kings:\nNote that the Hebrew word \"ob\", translated as \"familiar spirit\" in the above quotation, has a different meaning than the usual English sense of the phrase; namely, it refers to a spirit that the woman is familiar with, rather than to a spirit that physically manifests itself in the shape of an animal.\n\nThe New Testament condemns the practice as an abomination, just as the Old Testament had (Galatians 5:20, compared with Revelation 21:8; 22:15; and Acts 8:9; 13:6). The word in most New Testament translations is \"sorcerer\"/\"sorcery\" rather than \"witch\"/\"witchcraft\".\n\nJewish law views the practice of witchcraft as being laden with idolatry and/or necromancy; both being serious theological and practical offenses in Judaism. Although Maimonides vigorously denied the efficacy of all methods of witchcraft, and claimed that the Biblical prohibitions regarding it were precisely to wean the Israelites from practices related to idolatry. It is acknowledged that while magic exists, it is forbidden to practice it on the basis that it usually involves the worship of other gods. Rabbis of the Talmud also condemned magic when it produced something other than illusion, giving the example of two men who use magic to pick cucumbers (Sanhedrin 67a). The one who creates the illusion of picking cucumbers should not be condemned, only the one who actually picks the cucumbers through magic.\n\nHowever, some of the rabbis practiced \"magic\" themselves or taught the subject. For instance, Rabbah created a person and sent him to Rav Zeira, and Hanina and Hoshaiah studied every Friday together and created a small calf to eat on Shabbat (Sanhedrin 67b). In these cases, the \"magic\" was seen more as divine miracles (i.e., coming from God rather than \"unclean\" forces) than as witchcraft.\n\nJudaism does make it clear that Jews shall not try to learn about the ways of witches (Book of Deuteronomy 18: 9–10) and that witches are to be put to death (Exodus 22:17).\n\nJudaism's most famous reference to a medium is undoubtedly the Witch of Endor whom Saul consults, as recounted in 1 Samuel 28.\n\nDivination, and magic in Islam, encompass a wide range of practices, including black magic, warding off the evil eye, the production of amulets and other magical equipment, evocation, casting lots, and astrology. Muslims do commonly believe in magic (\"sihr\") and explicitly forbid its practice. \"Sihr\" translates from Arabic as sorcery or black magic. The best known reference to magic in Islam is surah al-Falaq of the Qur'an, which is known as a prayer to God to ward off black magic:\nAlso according to the Qur'an:\nIslam distinguishes between God-given gifts, which can heal sickness, and possession, and sorcery. Good supernatural powers are therefore a \"special gift from God\", whereas sorcery or black magic is achieved through help of jinn and demons. In the Qurʾānic narrative, the Prophet Sulayman had the power to speak with animals and command jinn, and he thanks God for this نعمة (i.e. gift, privilege, favour, bounty), which is only given to him with God’s permission. The Prophet Muhammad was accused of being a magician by his opponents.\n\nIt is a common belief that jinn can possess a human, thus requiring exorcism (\"ruqya\") derived from the Prophet's \"sunnah\" to cast off the jinn or devils from the body of the possessed. The practice of seeking help from the jinn is prohibited and can lead to possession. The \"ruqya\" contains verses of the Qur'an as well as prayers specifically targeted against demons. The knowledge of which verses of the Qur'an to use in what way is what is considered \"magic knowledge.\"\n\nA \"hadith\" recorded in states: \"Seventy thousand people of my followers will enter Paradise without accounts, and they are those who do not practice Ar-Ruqya and do not see an evil omen in things, and put their trust in their Lord.\" Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, a scholar, commented on this \"hadith\", stating: That is because these people will enter Paradise without being called to account because of the perfection of their Tawheed, therefore he described them as people who did not ask others to perform ruqyah for them. Hence he said \"and they put their trust in their Lord.\" Because of their complete trust in their Lord, their contentment with Him, their faith in Him, their being pleased with Him and their seeking their needs from Him, they do not ask people for anything, be it ruqyah or anything else, and they are not influenced by omens and superstitions that could prevent them from doing what they want to do, because superstition detracts from and weakens Tawheed\".\n\nIbn al-Nadim hold, exorcists gain their power by their obedience to God, while sorcerers please the demons by acts of disobedience and sacrifices and they in return do him a favor. Being pious and strictly following the teachings of the Qur'an can increase the probability to perform magic or miracles, that is distinguished from witchcraft, the latter practised in aid with demons.\n\nA \"hadith\" recorded in narrates that one who has eaten seven Ajwa dates in the morning will not be adversely affected by magic in the course of that day.\n\nStudents of the history of religion have linked several magical practises in Islam with pre-Islamic Turkish and East African customs. Most notable of these customs is the Zār.\n\nIn Southern African traditions, there are three classifications of somebody who uses magic. The \"tagati\" is usually improperly translated into English as \"witch\", and is a spiteful person who operates in secret to harm others. The \"sangoma\" is a diviner, somewhere on a par with a fortune teller, and is employed in detecting illness, predicting a person's future (or advising them on which path to take), or identifying the guilty party in a crime. She also practices some degree of medicine. The \"inyanga\" is often translated as \"witch doctor\" (though many Southern Africans resent this implication, as it perpetuates the mistaken belief that a \"witch doctor\" is in some sense a \"practitioner\" of malicious magic). The \"inyanga\"s job is to heal illness and injury and provide customers with magical items for everyday use. Of these three categories the \"tagati\" is almost exclusively female, the \"sangoma\" is usually female, and the \"inyanga\" is almost exclusively male.\n\nMuch of what witchcraft represents in Africa has been susceptible to misunderstandings and confusion, thanks in no small part to a tendency among western scholars since the time of the now largely discredited Margaret Murray to approach the subject through a comparative lens vis-a-vis European witchcraft. Okeja argues that witchcraft in Africa today plays a very different social role than in Europe of the past—or present—and should be understood through an African rather than post-colonial Western lens.\n\nComplimentary remarks about witchcraft by a native Congolese initiate: \"From witchcraft ... may be developed the remedy (\"kimbuki\") that will do most to raise up our country.\" \"Witchcraft ... deserves respect ... it can embellish or redeem (\"ketula evo vuukisa\").\" \"The ancestors were equipped with the protective witchcraft of the clan (\"kindoki kiandundila kanda\"). ... They could also gather the power of animals into their hands ... whenever they needed. ... If we could make use of these kinds of witchcraft, our country would rapidly progress in knowledge of every kind.\" \"You witches (\"zindoki\") too, bring your science into the light to be written down so that ... the benefits in it ... endow our race.\"\n\nIn eastern Cameroon, the term used for witchcraft among the Maka is \"djambe\" and refers to a force inside a person; its powers may make the proprietor more vulnerable. It encompasses the occult, the transformative, killing and healing.\n\nIn some Central African areas, malicious magic users are believed by locals to be the source of terminal illness such as AIDS and cancer. In such cases, various methods are used to rid the person from the bewitching spirit, occasionally physical and psychological abuse. Children may be accused of being witches, for example a young niece may be blamed for the illness of a relative. Most of these cases of abuse go unreported since the members of the society that witness such abuse are too afraid of being accused of being accomplices. It is also believed that witchcraft can be transmitted to children by feeding. Parents discourage their children from interacting with people believed to be witches.\n\nEvery year, hundreds of people in the Central African Republic are convicted of witchcraft.\n\nChristian militias in the Central African Republic have also kidnapped, burnt and buried alive women accused of being 'witches' in public ceremonies.\n\n, between 25,000 and 50,000 children in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo, had been accused of witchcraft and thrown out of their homes. These children have been subjected to often-violent abuse during exorcisms, sometimes supervised by self-styled religious pastors. Other pastors and Christian activists strongly oppose such accusations and try to rescue children from their unscrupulous colleagues. The usual term for these children is \"enfants sorciers\" (child witches) or \"enfants dits sorciers\" (children accused of witchcraft). In 2002, USAID funded the production of two short films on the subject, made in Kinshasa by journalists Angela Nicoara and Mike Ormsby.\n\nIn April 2008, in Kinshasa, the police arrested 14 suspected victims (of penis snatching) and sorcerers accused of using black magic or witchcraft to steal (make disappear) or shrink men's penises to extort cash for cure, amid a wave of panic.\n\nAccording to one study, the belief in magical warfare technologies (such as \"bulletproofing\") in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo serves a group-level function, as it increases group efficiency in warfare, even if it is suboptimal at the individual level. The authors of the study argue that this is one reason why the belief in witchcraft persists.\n\nIn Ghana, women are often accused of witchcraft and attacked by neighbours. Because of this, there exist six witch camps in the country where women suspected of being witches can flee for safety. The witch camps, which exist solely in Ghana, are thought to house a total of around 1000 women. Some of the camps are thought to have been set up over 100 years ago. The Ghanaian government has announced that it intends to close the camps.\n\nArrests were made in an effort to avoid bloodshed seen in Ghana a decade ago, when 12 alleged penis snatchers were beaten to death by mobs. While it is easy for modern people to dismiss such reports, Uchenna Okeja argues that a belief system in which such magical practices are deemed possible offer many benefits to Africans who hold them. For example, the belief that a sorcerer has \"stolen\" a man's penis functions as an anxiety-reduction mechanism for men suffering from impotence while simultaneously providing an explanation that is consistent with African cultural beliefs rather than appealing to Western scientific notions that are tainted by the history of colonialism (at least for many Africans).\n\nIt was reported on May 21, 2008 that in Kenya, a mob had burnt to death at least 11 people accused of witchcraft.\n\nIn Malawi it is also common practice to accuse children of witchcraft and many children have been abandoned, abused and even killed as a result. As in other African countries both African traditional healers and their Christian counterparts are trying to make a living out of exorcising children and are actively involved in pointing out children as witches. Various secular and Christian organizations are combining their efforts to address this problem.\n\nAccording to William Kamkwamba, witches and wizards are afraid of money, which they consider a rival evil. Any contact with cash will snap their spell and leave the wizard naked and confused. So placing cash, such as kwacha around a room or bed mat will protect the resident from their malevolent spells.\n\nIn Nigeria, several Pentecostal pastors have mixed their evangelical brand of Christianity with African beliefs in witchcraft to benefit from the lucrative witch finding and exorcism business—which in the past was the exclusive domain of the so-called witch doctor or traditional healers. These pastors have been involved in the torturing and even killing of children accused of witchcraft. Over the past decade, around 15,000 children have been accused, and around 1,000 murdered. Churches are very numerous in Nigeria, and competition for congregations is hard. Some pastors attempt to establish a reputation for spiritual power by \"detecting\" child witches, usually following a death or loss of a job within a family, or an accusation of financial fraud against the pastor. In the course of \"exorcisms\", accused children may be starved, beaten, mutilated, set on fire, forced to consume acid or cement, or buried alive. While some church leaders and Christian activists have spoken out strongly against these abuses, many Nigerian churches are involved in the abuse, although church administrations deny knowledge of it.\n\nAmong the Mende (of Sierra Leone), trial and conviction for witchcraft has a beneficial effect for those convicted. \"The witchfinder had warned the whole village to ensure the relative prosperity of the accused and sentenced ... old people. ... Six months later all of the people ... accused, were secure, well-fed and arguably happier than at any [previous] time; they had hardly to beckon and people would come with food or whatever was needful. ... Instead of such old and widowed people being left helpless or (as in Western society) institutionalized in old people's homes, these were reintegrated into society and left secure in their old age ... . ... Old people are 'suitable' candidates for this kind of accusation in the sense that they are isolated and vulnerable, and they are 'suitable' candidates for 'social security' for precisely the same reasons.\"\n\nIn Kuranko language, the term for witchcraft is \"suwa'ye\" referring to \"extraordinary powers\".\n\nIn Tanzania in 2008, President Kikwete publicly condemned witchdoctors for killing albinos for their body parts, which are thought to bring good luck. 25 albinos have been murdered since March 2007. In Tanzania, albinos are often murdered for their body parts on the advice of witch doctors in order to produce powerful amulets that are believed to protect against witchcraft and make the owner prosper in life.\n\nBrua is an Afro-Caribbean religion and healing tradition that originates in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, in the Dutch Caribbean. A healer in this culture is called a \"kurioso\" or \"kuradó\", a man or woman who performs \"trabou chikí\" (little works) and \"trabou grandi\" (large treatments) to promote or restore health, bring fortune or misfortune, deal with unrequited love, and more serious concerns, in which sorcery is involved. Sorcery usually involves reference to the \"almasola\" or \"homber chiki\", a devil-like entity. \"Transcultural Psychiatry\" published a paper called \"Traditional healing practices originating in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao: A review of the literature on psychiatry and Brua\" by Jan Dirk Blom, Igmar T. Poulina, Trevor L. van Gellecum and Hans W. Hoek of the Parnassia Psychiatric Institute.\n\nIn 1645, Springfield, Massachusetts, experienced America's first accusations of witchcraft when husband and wife Hugh and Mary Parsons accused each other of witchcraft. At America's first witch trial, Hugh was found innocent, while Mary was acquitted of witchcraft but sentenced to be hanged for the death of her child. She died in prison. From 1645–1663, about eighty people throughout England's Massachusetts Bay Colony were accused of practicing witchcraft. Thirteen women and two men were executed in a witch-hunt that lasted throughout New England from 1645–1663.\n\nThe Salem witch trials followed in 1692–93. These witch trials were the most famous in British North America and took place in the coastal settlements near Salem, Massachusetts. Prior to the witch trials, nearly 300 men and women had been suspected of partaking in witchcraft, and 19 of these people were hanged, and one was “pressed to death”. The Salem witch trials were a series of hearings before local magistrates followed by county court trials to prosecute people accused of witchcraft in Essex, Suffolk and Middlesex Counties of colonial Massachusetts, between February 1692 and May 1693. Over 150 people were arrested and imprisoned, with even more accused who were not formally pursued by the authorities. The two courts convicted 29 people of the capital felony of witchcraft. Nineteen of the accused, 14 women and 5 men, were hanged. One man who refused to enter a plea was crushed to death under heavy stones in an attempt to force him to do so. At least five more of the accused died in prison.\n\nDespite being generally known as the \"Salem\" witch trials, the preliminary hearings in 1692 were conducted in a variety of towns across the province: Salem Village (now Danvers), Salem Town, Ipswich, and Andover. The best known trials were conducted by the Court of Oyer and Terminer in 1692 in Salem Town. All 26 who went to trial before this court were convicted. The four sessions of the Superior Court of Judicature in 1693, held in Salem Town, but also in Ipswich, Boston, and Charlestown, produced only 3 convictions in the 31 witchcraft trials it conducted. Likewise, alleged witchcraft was not isolated to New England. In 1706 Grace Sherwood the \"Witch of Pungo\" was imprisoned for the crime in Princess Anne County, Virginia.\n\nIn Maryland, there is a legend of Moll Dyer, who escaped a fire set by fellow colonists only to die of exposure in December 1697. The historical record of Dyer is scant as all official records were burned in a courthouse fire, though the county courthouse has on display the rock where her frozen body was found. A letter from a colonist of the period describes her in most unfavourable terms. A local road is named after Dyer, where her homestead was said to have been. Many local families have their own version of the Moll Dyer affair, and her name is spoken with care in the rural southern counties.\n\nAccusations of witchcraft and wizardry led to the prosecution of a man in Tennessee as recently as 1833. \"The Crucible\" by Arthur Miller is a dramatized and partially fictionalized story of the Salem witch trials that took place in the Massachusetts Bay Colony during 1692–93.\n\nIn Diné culture, witches are seen as the polar opposite of ceremonial people. While spiritual leaders perform \"sings\" for healing, protection and other beneficial purposes, all practices referred to as \"witchcraft\" are intended to hurt and curse. Witches are associated with harm to the community and transgression of societal standards, especially those relating to family and the dead.\n\nThe \"yee naaldlooshii\" is the type of witch known in English as a \"skin-walker\". They are believed to take the forms of animals in order to travel in secret and do harm to the innocent. In the Navajo language, ' translates to \"with it, he goes on all fours\". While perhaps the most common variety seen in horror fiction by non-Navajo people, the ' is one of several varieties of Navajo witch, specifically a type of \"\".\n\nCorpse powder or corpse poison (, literally \"witchery\" or \"harming\") is a substance made from powdered corpses. The powder is used by witches to curse their victims. The effect of the \"\" is a curse and disease, usually indicated by an immediate action to administration of the poison, like fainting, swelling of the tongue, or lockjaw. Sometimes, however, the victims simply wastes away, as from a normal disease.\n\nTraditional Navajos usually hesitate to discuss things like witches and witchcraft with non-Navajos.\n\nWitchcraft was also an important part of the social and cultural history of late-Colonial Mexico, during the Mexican Inquisition. Spanish Inquisitors viewed witchcraft as a problem that could be cured simply through confession. Yet, as anthropologist Ruth Behar writes, witchcraft, not only in Mexico but in Latin America in general, was a \"conjecture of sexuality, witchcraft, and religion, in which Spanish, indigenous, and African cultures converged.\" Furthermore, witchcraft in Mexico generally required an interethnic and interclass network of witches. Yet, according to anthropology professor Laura Lewis, witchcraft in colonial Mexico ultimately represented an \"affirmation of hegemony\" for women, Indians, and especially Indian women over their white male counterparts as a result of the casta system.\n\nIn modern history, notoriety has been awarded to a place called Catemaco, in the state of Veracruz, which has a history of witchcraft, and where the practice of witchcraft by contemporary \"brujos\" and \"brujas\" thrives.\n\nIn Mexico City, people who practice brujería, Santería, voodoo, ocultism and magic may find items, herbs and supplies at the \"mercado de Sonora\".\n\nIn Chile there is a tradition of the Kalku in Mapuche religion; and the Warlocks of Chiloé in the folklore and Chilote mythology.\n\nThe presence of the witch is a constant in the ethnographic history of colonial Brazil, especially during the several denunciations and confessions given to the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith of Bahia (1591–1593), Pernambuco and Paraíba (1593–1595).\n\nBelief in the supernatural is strong in all parts of India, and lynchings for witchcraft are reported in the press from time to time. Around 750 people were killed as witches in Assam and West Bengal between 2003 and 2008. Officials in the state of Chhattisgarh reported in 2008 that at least 100 women are maltreated annually as suspected witches. A local activist stated that only a fraction of cases of abuse are reported. In Indian mythology, a common perception of a witch is a being with her feet pointed backwards.\n\nApart from other types of Violence against women in Nepal, the malpractice of abusing women in the name of witchcraft is also really prominent. According to the statistics in 2013, there was a total of 69 reported cases of abuse to women due to accusation of performing witchcraft. The perpetrators of this malpractice are usually neighbors, so-called witch doctors and family members. The main causes of these malpractices are lack of education, lack of awareness and superstition. According to the statistics by INSEC, the age group of women who fall victims to the witchcraft violence in Nepal is 20–40.\n\nIn Japanese folklore, the most common types of witch can be separated into two categories: those who employ snakes as familiars, and those who employ foxes.\n\nThe fox witch is, by far, the most commonly seen witch figure in Japan. Differing regional beliefs set those who use foxes into two separate types: the \"kitsune-mochi\", and the \"tsukimono-suji\". The first of these, the \"kitsune-mochi\", is a solitary figure who gains his fox familiar by bribing it with its favourite foods. The \"kitsune-mochi\" then strikes up a deal with the fox, typically promising food and daily care in return for the fox's magical services. The fox of Japanese folklore is a powerful trickster in and of itself, imbued with powers of shape changing, possession, and illusion. These creatures can be either nefarious; disguising themselves as women in order to trap men, or they can be benign forces as in the story of \"The Grateful foxes\". However, once a fox enters the employ of a human it almost exclusively becomes a force of evil to be feared. A fox under the employ of a human can provide many services. The fox can turn invisible and find secrets its master desires. It can apply its many powers of illusion to trick and deceive its master's enemies. The most feared power of the \"kitsune-mochi\" is the ability to command his fox to possess other humans. This process of possession is called Kitsunetsuki.\n\nBy far, the most commonly reported cases of fox witchcraft in modern Japan are enacted by \"tsukimono-suji\" families, or \"hereditary witches\". The \"Tsukimono-suji\" is traditionally a family who is reported to have foxes under their employ. These foxes serve the family and are passed down through the generations, typically through the female line. \"Tsukimono-suji\" foxes are able to supply much in the way of the same mystical aid that the foxes under the employ of a \"kitsune-mochi\" can provide its more solitary master with. In addition to these powers, if the foxes are kept happy and well taken care of, they bring great fortune and prosperity to the \"Tsukimono-suji\" house. However, the aid in which these foxes give is often overshadowed by the social and mystical implications of being a member of such a family. In many villages, the status of local families as \"tsukimono-suji\" is often common, everyday knowledge. Such families are respected and feared, but are also openly shunned. Due to its hereditary nature, the status of being \"Tsukimono-suji\" is considered contagious. Because of this, it is often impossible for members of such a family to sell land or other properties, due to fear that the possession of such items will cause foxes to inundate one's own home. In addition to this, because the foxes are believed to be passed down through the female line, it is often nearly impossible for women of such families to find a husband whose family will agree to have him married to a \"tsukimono-suji\" family. In such a union the woman's status as a \"Tsukimono-suji\" would transfer to any man who married her.\n\nWitchcraft in the Philippines is often classified as malevolent, with practitioners of black magic called \"Mangkukulam\" in Tagalog and \"Mambabarang\" in Cebuano; there are also practitioners of benevolent, white magic, in addition to some who practise both. \"Mambabarang\" in particular are noted for their ability to command insects and other invertebrates to accomplish a task, such as delivering a curse to a target.\n\nMagic and witchcraft in the Philippines varies considerably across the different ethnic groups, and is commonly a modern manifestation of pre-Colonial spirituality interwoven with Catholic religious elements such as the invocation of saints and the use of pseudo-Latin prayers (\"oración\") in spells, and \"anting-anting\" (amulets).\n\nPractitioners of traditional herbal-based medicine and divination called \"albularyo\" are not considered witches. They are perceived to be either quack doctors or a quasi-magical option when western medicine fails to identify or cure an ailment that is thus suspected to be of supernatural, often malevolent, origin. Feng shui, an influence of Filipino Chinese culture, is also not classified as witchcraft as it is considered a separate realm of belief altogether.\n\nSaudi Arabia continues to use the death penalty for sorcery and witchcraft. In 2006 Fawza Falih Muhammad Ali was condemned to death for practicing witchcraft. There is no legal definition of sorcery in Saudi, but in 2007 an Egyptian pharmacist working there was accused, convicted, and executed. Saudi authorities also pronounced the death penalty on a Lebanese television presenter, Ali Hussain Sibat, while he was performing the \"hajj\" (Islamic pilgrimage) in the country.\n\nIn 2009 the Saudi authorities set up the Anti-Witchcraft Unit of their Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice police.\n\nIn April 2009, a Saudi woman Amina Bint Abdulhalim Nassar was arrested and later sentenced to death for practicing witchcraft and sorcery. In December 2011, she was beheaded. A Saudi man has been beheaded on charges of sorcery and witchcraft in June 2012. A beheading for sorcery occurred in 2014.\n\nIn June 2015, Yahoo reported: \"The Islamic State group has beheaded two women in Syria on accusations of \"sorcery,\" the first such executions of female civilians in Syria, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Tuesday.\"\nISIS decapitated a man in Iraq over sorcery.\n\nAn expedition sent to what is now the Xinjiang region of western China by the PBS documentary series \"Nova\" found a fully clothed female Tocharian mummy wearing a black conical hat of the type now associated with witches in Europe in the storage area of a small local museum, indicative of an Indo-European priestess.\n\nWitchcraft in Europe between 500–1750 was believed to be a combination of sorcery and heresy. While sorcery attempts to produce negative supernatural effects through formulas and rituals, heresy is the Christian contribution to witchcraft in which an individual makes a pact with the Devil. In addition, heresy denies witches the recognition of important Christian values such as baptism, salvation, Christ and sacraments. The beginning of the witch accusations in Europe took place in the 14th and 15th centuries; however as the social disruptions of the 16th century took place, witchcraft trials intensified. \nIn Early Modern European tradition, witches were stereotypically, though not exclusively, women. European pagan belief in witchcraft was associated with the goddess Diana and dismissed as \"diabolical fantasies\" by medieval Christian authors. Witch-hunts first appeared in large numbers in southern France and Switzerland during the 14th and 15th centuries. The peak years of witch-hunts in southwest Germany were from 1561 to 1670.\n\nIt was commonly believed that individuals with power and prestige were involved in acts of witchcraft and even cannibalism. Because Europe had a lot of power over individuals living in West Africa, Europeans in positions of power were often accused of taking part in these practices. Though it is not likely that these individuals were actually involved in these practices, they were most likely associated due to Europe’s involvement in things like the slave trade, which negatively affected the lives of many individuals in the Atlantic World throughout the fifteenth through seventeenth centuries.\n\nThe familiar witch of folklore and popular superstition is a combination of numerous influences. The characterization of the witch as an evil magic user developed over time.\n\nEarly converts to Christianity looked to Christian clergy to work magic more effectively than the old methods under Roman paganism, and Christianity provided a methodology involving saints and relics, similar to the gods and amulets of the Pagan world. As Christianity became the dominant religion in Europe, its concern with magic lessened.\n\nThe Protestant Christian explanation for witchcraft, such as those typified in the confessions of the Pendle witches, commonly involves a diabolical pact or at least an appeal to the intervention of the spirits of evil. The witches or wizards engaged in such practices were alleged to reject Jesus and the sacraments; observe \"the witches' sabbath\" (performing infernal rites that often parodied the Mass or other sacraments of the Church); pay Divine honour to the Prince of Darkness; and, in return, receive from him preternatural powers. It was a folkloric belief that a Devil's Mark, like the brand on cattle, was placed upon a witch's skin by the devil to signify that this pact had been made. Witches were most often characterized as women. Witches disrupted the societal institutions, and more specifically, marriage. It was believed that a witch often joined a pact with the devil to gain powers to deal with infertility, immense fear for her children's well-being, or revenge against a lover. They were also depicted as lustful and perverted, and it was thought that they copulated with the devil at the Sabbath.\n\nThe Church and European society were not always so zealous in hunting witches or blaming them for misfortunes. Saint Boniface declared in the 8th century that belief in the existence of witches was un-Christian. The emperor Charlemagne decreed that the burning of supposed witches was a pagan custom that would be punished by the death penalty. In 820 the Bishop of Lyon and others repudiated the belief that witches could make bad weather, fly in the night, and change their shape. This denial was accepted into Canon law . Other rulers such as King Coloman of Hungary declared that witch-hunts should cease because witches (more specifically, strigas) do not exist.\n\nThe Church did not invent the idea of witchcraft as a potentially harmful force whose practitioners should be put to death. This idea is commonplace in pre-Christian religions. According to the scholar Max Dashu, the concept of medieval witchcraft contained many of its elements even before the emergence of Christianity. These can be found in Bacchanalias, especially in the time when they were led by priestess Paculla Annia (188BC–186BC).\n\nPowers typically attributed to European witches include turning food poisonous or inedible, flying on broomsticks or pitchforks, casting spells, cursing people, making livestock ill and crops fail, and creating fear and local chaos.\n\nHowever, even at a later date, not all witches were assumed to be harmful practicers of the craft. In England, the provision of this curative magic was the job of a witch doctor, also known as a cunning man, white witch, or wise man. The term \"witch doctor\" was in use in England before it came to be associated with Africa. Toad doctors were also credited with the ability to undo evil witchcraft. (Other folk magicians had their own purviews. Girdle-measurers specialised in diagnosing ailments caused by fairies, while magical cures for more mundane ailments, such as burns or toothache, could be had from charmers.)\n\nHistorians Keith Thomas and his student Alan Macfarlane study witchcraft by combining historical research with concepts drawn from anthropology. They argued that English witchcraft, like African witchcraft, was endemic rather than epidemic. Older women were the favorite targets because they were marginal, dependent members of the community and therefore more likely to arouse feelings of both hostility and guilt, and less likely to have defenders of importance inside the community. Witchcraft accusations were the village's reaction to the breakdown of its internal community, coupled with the emergence of a newer set of values that was generating psychic stress.\nIn Wales, fear of witchcraft mounted around the year 1500. There was a growing alarm of women's magic as a weapon aimed against the state and church. The Church made greater efforts to enforce the canon law of marriage, especially in Wales where tradition allowed a wider range of sexual partnerships. There was a political dimension as well, as accusations of witchcraft were levied against the enemies of Henry VII, who was exerting more and more control over Wales.\n\nThe records of the Courts of Great Sessions for Wales, 1536–1736 show that Welsh custom was more important than English law. Custom provided a framework of responding to witches and witchcraft in such a way that interpersonal and communal harmony was maintained, Showing to regard to the importance of honour, social place and cultural status. Even when found guilty, execution did not occur.\n\nBecoming king in 1603, James I Brought to England and Scotland continental explanations of witchcraft. His goal was to divert suspicion away from male homosociality among the elite, and focus fear on female communities and large gatherings of women. He thought they threatened his political power so he laid the foundation for witchcraft and occultism policies, especially in Scotland. The point was that a widespread belief in the conspiracy of witches and a witches' Sabbath with the devil deprived women of political influence. Occult power was supposedly a womanly trait because women were weaker and more susceptible to the devil.\n\nIn 1944 Helen Duncan was the last person in Britain to be imprisoned for fraudulently claiming to be a witch.\n\nIn the United Kingdom children believed to be witches or seen as possessed by evil spirits can be subject to severe beatings, traumatic exorcism, and/or other abuse. There have even been child murders associated with witchcraft beliefs. The problem is particularly serious among immigrant or former immigrant communities of African origin but other communities, such as those of Asian origin are also involved. Step children and children seen as different for a wide range of reasons are particularly at risk of witchcraft accusations. Children may be beaten or have chilli rubbed into their eyes during exorcisms. This type of abuse is frequently hidden and can include torture. A 2006 recommendation to record abuse cases linked to witchcraft centrally has not yet been implemented. Lack of awareness among social workers, teachers and other professionals dealing with at risk children hinders efforts to combat the problem.\n\nThere is a 'money making scam' involved. Pastors accuse a child of being a witch and later the family pays for exorcism. If a child at school says that his/her pastor called the child a witch that should become a child safeguarding issue.\n\nAs in most European countries, women in Italy were more likely suspected of witchcraft than men. Women were considered dangerous due to their supposed sexual instability, such as when being aroused, and also due to the powers of their menstrual blood.\n\nIn the 16th century, Italy had a high portion of witchcraft trials involving love magic. The country had a large number of unmarried people due to men marrying later in their lives during this time. This left many women on a desperate quest for marriage leaving them vulnerable to the accusation of witchcraft whether they took part in it or not. Trial records from the Inquisition and secular courts discovered a link between prostitutes and supernatural practices. Professional prostitutes were considered experts in love and therefore knew how to make love potions and cast love related spells. Up until 1630, the majority of women accused of witchcraft were prostitutes. A courtesan was questioned about her use of magic due to her relationship with men of power in Italy and her wealth. The majority of women accused were also considered \"outsiders\" because they were poor, had different religious practices, spoke a different language, or simply from a different city/town/region. Cassandra from Ferrara, Italy, was still considered a foreigner because not native to Rome where she was residing. She was also not seen as a model citizen because her husband was in Venice.\n\nFrom the 16th-18th centuries, the Catholic Church enforced moral discipline throughout Italy. With the help of local tribunals, such as in Venice, the two institutions investigated a woman's religious behaviors when she was accused of witchcraft.\n\nFranciscan friars from New Spain introduced Diabolism, belief in the devil, to the indigenous people after their arrival in 1524.\nBartolomé de las Casas believed that human sacrifice was not diabolic, in fact far off from it, and was a natural result of religious expression.\nMexican Indians gladly took in the belief of Diabolism and still managed to keep their belief in creator-destroyer deities.\n\nIn pre-Christian times, witchcraft was a common practice in the Cook Islands. The native name for a sorcerer was \"tangata purepure\" (a man who prays). The prayers offered by the \"ta'unga\" (priests) to the gods worshiped on national or tribal \"marae\" (temples) were termed \"karakia\"; those on minor occasions to the lesser gods were named \"pure\". All these prayers were metrical, and were handed down from generation to generation with the utmost care. There were prayers for every such phase in life; for success in battle; for a change in wind (to overwhelm an adversary at sea, or that an intended voyage be propitious); that his crops may grow; to curse a thief; or wish ill-luck and death to his foes. Few men of middle age were without a number of these prayers or charms. The succession of a sorcerer was from father to son, or from uncle to nephew. So too of sorceresses: it would be from mother to daughter, or from aunt to niece. Sorcerers and sorceresses were often slain by relatives of their supposed victims.\n\nA singular enchantment was employed to kill off a husband of a pretty woman desired by someone else. The expanded flower of a Gardenia was stuck upright—a very difficult performance—in a cup (i.e., half a large coconut shell) of water. A prayer was then offered for the husbands speedy death, the sorcerer earnestly watching the flower. Should it fall the incantation was successful. But if the flower still remained upright, he will live. The sorcerer would in that case try his skill another day, with perhaps better success.\n\nAccording to Beatrice Grimshaw, a journalist who visited the Cook Islands in 1907, the uncrowned Queen Makea was believed to have possessed the mystic power called \"mana\", giving the possessor the power to slay at will. It also included other gifts, such as second sight to a certain extent, the power to bring good or evil luck, and the ability already mentioned to deal death at will.\n\nA local newspaper informed that more than 50 people were killed in two Highlands provinces of Papua New Guinea in 2008 for allegedly practicing witchcraft. An estimated 50–150 alleged witches are killed each year in Papua New Guinea.\n\nAmong the Russian words for \"witch\", ведьма (ved'ma) literally means \"one who knows\", from Old Slavic вѣдъ \"to know\"). Another frequent term is колдунья (koldun'ya), \"sorcerer\" being колдун (koldun).\n\nPagan practices formed a part of Russian and Eastern Slavic culture; the Russian people were deeply superstitious. The witchcraft practiced consisted mostly of earth magic and herbology; it was not so significant which herbs were used in practices, but how these herbs were gathered. Ritual centered on harvest of the crops and the location of the sun was very important. One source, pagan author Judika Illes, tells that herbs picked on Midsummer's Eve were believed to be most powerful, especially if gathered on Bald Mountain near Kiev during the witches' annual revels celebration. Botanicals should be gathered, \"During the seventeenth minute of the fourteenth hour, under a dark moon, in the thirteenth field, wearing a red dress, pick the twelfth flower on the right.\"\n\nSpells also served for midwifery, shape-shifting, keeping lovers faithful, and bridal customs. Spells dealing with midwifery and childbirth focused on the spiritual wellbeing of the baby. Shape-shifting spells involved invocation of the wolf as a spirit animal. To keep men faithful, lovers would cut a ribbon the length of his erect penis and soak it in his seminal emissions after sex while he was sleeping, then tie seven knots in it; keeping this talisman of knot magic ensured loyalty. Part of an ancient pagan marriage tradition involved the bride taking a ritual bath at a bathhouse before the ceremony. Her sweat would be wiped from her body using raw fish, and the fish would be cooked and fed to the groom.\n\nDemonism, or black magic, was not prevalent. Persecution for witchcraft, mostly involved the practice of simple earth magic, founded on herbology, by solitary practitioners with a Christian influence. In one case investigators found a locked box containing something bundled in a kerchief and three paper packets, wrapped and tied, containing crushed grasses. Most rituals of witchcraft were very simple—one spell of divination consists of sitting alone outside meditating, asking the earth to show one's fate.\n\nWhile these customs were unique to Russian culture, they were not exclusive to this region. Russian pagan practices were often akin to paganism in other parts of the world. The Chinese concept of \"chi\", a form of energy that often manipulated in witchcraft, is known as bioplasma in Russian practices. The western concept of an \"evil eye\" or a \"hex\" was translated to Russia as a \"spoiler\". A spoiler was rooted in envy, jealousy and malice. Spoilers could be made by gathering bone from a cemetery, a knot of the target's hair, burned wooden splinters and several herb Paris berries (which are very poisonous). Placing these items in sachet in the victim's pillow completes a spoiler. The Sumerians, Babylonians, Assyrians, and the ancient Egyptians recognized the evil eye from as early as 3,000 BCE; in Russian practices it is seen as a sixteenth-century concept.\n\nThe dominant societal concern those practicing witchcraft was not whether paganism was effective, but whether it could cause harm. Peasants in Russian and Ukrainian societies often shunned witchcraft, unless they needed help against supernatural forces. Impotence, stomach pains, barrenness, hernias, abscesses, epileptic seizures, and convulsions were all attributed to evil (or witchcraft). This is reflected in linguistics; there are numerous words for a variety of practitioners of paganism-based healers. Russian peasants referred to a witch as a \"chernoknizhnik\" (a person who plied his trade with the aid of a black book), \"sheptun\"/\"sheptun'ia\" (a \"whisperer\" male or female), \"lekar\"/\"lekarka\" or \"znakhar\"/\"znakharka\" (a male or female healer), or \"zagovornik\" (an incanter).\n\nIronically enough, there was universal reliance on folk healers – but clients often turned them in if something went wrong. According to Russian historian Valerie A. Kivelson, witchcraft accusations were normally thrown at lower-class peasants, townspeople and Cossacks. People turned to witchcraft as a means to support themselves. The ratio of male to female accusations was 75% to 25%. Males were targeted more, because witchcraft was associated with societal deviation. Because single people with no settled home could not be taxed, males typically had more power than women in their dissent.\n\nThe history of Witchcraft had evolved around society. More of a psychological concept to the creation and usage of Witchcraft can create the assumption as to why women are more likely to follow the practices behind Witchcraft. Identifying with the soul of an individual’s self is often deemed as \"feminine\" in society. There is analyzed social and economic evidence to associate between witchcraft and women.\n\nWitchcraft trials occurred frequently in seventeenth-century Russia, although the \"great witch-hunt\" is believed to be a predominately Western European phenomenon. However, as the witchcraft-trial craze swept across Catholic and Protestant countries during this time, Orthodox Christian Europe indeed partook in this so-called \"witch hysteria.\" This involved the persecution of both males and females who were believed to be practicing paganism, herbology, the black art, or a form of sorcery within and/or outside their community. Very early on witchcraft legally fell under the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical body, the church, in Kievan Rus' and Muscovite Russia. Sources of ecclesiastical witchcraft jurisdiction date back as early as the second half of the eleventh century, one being Vladimir the Great's first edition of his State Statute or \"Ustav\", another being multiple references in the \"Primary Chronicle\" beginning in 1024.\n\nThe sentence for an individual found guilty of witchcraft or sorcery during this time, and in previous centuries, typically included either burning at the stake or being tested with the \"ordeal of cold water\" or \"judicium aquae frigidae\". The cold-water test was primarily a Western European phenomenon, but was used as a method of truth in Russia prior to, and post, seventeenth-century witchcraft trials in Muscovy. Accused persons who submerged were considered innocent, and ecclesiastical authorities would proclaim them \"brought back,\" but those who floated were considered guilty of practicing witchcraft, and burned at the stake or executed in an unholy fashion. The thirteenth-century bishop of Vladimir, Serapion Vladimirskii, preached sermons throughout the Muscovite countryside, and in one particular sermon revealed that burning was the usual punishment for witchcraft, but more often the cold water test was used as a precursor to execution.\n\nAlthough these two methods of torture were used in the west and the east, Russia implemented a system of fines payable for the crime of witchcraft during the seventeenth century. Thus, even though torture methods in Muscovy were on a similar level of harshness as Western European methods used, a more civil method was present. In the introduction of a collection of trial records pieced together by Russian scholar Nikolai Novombergsk, he argues that Muscovite authorities used the same degree of cruelty and harshness as Western European Catholic and Protestant countries in persecuting witches. By the mid-sixteenth century the manifestations of paganism, including witchcraft, and the black arts—astrology, fortune telling, and divination—became a serious concern to the Muscovite church and state.\n\nTsar Ivan IV (reigned 1547–1584) took this matter to the ecclesiastical court and was immediately advised that individuals practicing these forms of witchcraft should be excommunicated and given the death penalty. Ivan IV, as a true believer in witchcraft, was deeply convinced that sorcery accounted for the death of his wife, Anastasiia in 1560, which completely devastated and depressed him, leaving him heartbroken. Stemming from this belief, Ivan IV became majorly concerned with the threat of witchcraft harming his family, and feared he was in danger. So, during the Oprichnina (1565–1572), Ivan IV succeeded in accusing and charging a good number of boyars with witchcraft whom he did not wish to remain as nobles. Rulers after Ivan IV, specifically during the Time of Troubles (1598–1613), increased the fear of witchcraft among themselves and entire royal families, which then led to further preoccupation with the fear of prominent Muscovite witchcraft circles.\n\nAfter the Time of Troubles, seventeenth-century Muscovite rulers held frequent investigations of witchcraft within their households, laying the ground, along with previous tsarist reforms, for widespread witchcraft trials throughout the Muscovite state. Between 1622 and 1700 ninety-one people were brought to trial in Muscovite courts for witchcraft. Although Russia did partake in the witch craze that swept across Western Europe, the Muscovite state did not persecute nearly as many people for witchcraft, let alone execute a number of individuals anywhere close to the number executed in the west during the witch hysteria.\n\nWitches have a long history of being depicted in art, although most of their earliest artistic depictions seem to originate in Early Modern Europe, particularly the Medieval and Renaissance periods. Many scholars attribute their manifestation in art as inspired by texts such as \"Canon Episcopi\", a demonology-centered work of literature, and \"Malleus Maleficarum\", a \"witch-craze\" manual published in 1487, by Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger.\n\n\"Canon Episcopi\", a ninth-century text that explored the subject of demonology, initially introduced concepts that would continuously be associated with witches, such as their ability to fly or their believed fornication and sexual relations with the devil. The text refers to two women, Diana the Huntress and Herodias, who both express the duality of female sorcerers. Diana was described as having a heavenly body and as the \"protectress of childbirth and fertility\" while Herodias symbolized \"unbridled sensuality\". They thus represent the mental powers and cunning sexuality that witches used as weapons to trick men into performing sinful acts which would result in their eternal punishment. These characteristics were distinguished as Medusa-like or Lamia-like traits when seen in any artwork (Medusa's mental trickery was associated with Diana the Huntress's psychic powers and Lamia was a rumored female figure in the Medieval ages sometimes used in place of Herodias).\nOne of the first individuals to regularly depict witches after the witch-craze of the medieval period was Albrecht Dürer, a German Renaissance artist. His famous 1497 engraving \"The Four Witches\", portrays four physically attractive and seductive nude witches. Their supernatural identities are emphasized by the skulls and bones lying at their feet as well as the devil discreetly peering at them from their left. The women's sensuous presentation speaks to the overtly sexual nature they were attached to in early modern Europe. Moreover, this attractiveness was perceived as a danger to ordinary men who they could seduce and tempt into their sinful world. Some scholars interpret this piece as utilizing the logic of the \"Canon Episcopi\", in which women used their mental powers and bodily seduction to enslave and lead men onto a path of eternal damnation, differing from the unattractive depiction of witches that would follow in later Renaissance years.\nDürer also employed other ideas from the Middle Ages that were commonly associated with witches. Specifically, his art often referred to former 12th- to 13th-century Medieval iconography addressing the nature of female sorcerers. In the Medieval period, there was a widespread fear of witches, accordingly producing an association of dark, intimidating characteristics with witches, such as cannibalism (witches described as \"[sucking] the blood of newborn infants\") or described as having the ability to fly, usually on the back of black goats. As the Renaissance period began, these concepts of witchcraft were suppressed, leading to a drastic change in the sorceress' appearances, from sexually explicit beings to the 'ordinary' typical housewives of this time period. This depiction, known as the 'Waldensian' witch became a cultural phenomenon of early Renaissance art. The term originates from the 12th-century monk Peter Waldo, who established his own religious sect which explicitly opposed the luxury and commodity-influenced lifestyle of the Christian church clergy, and whose sect was excommunicated before being persecuted as \"practitioners of witchcraft and magic\".\n\nSubsequent artwork exhibiting witches tended to consistently rely on cultural stereotypes about these women. These stereotypes were usually rooted in early Renaissance religious discourse, specifically the Christian belief that an \"earthly alliance\" had taken place between Satan's female minions who \"conspired to destroy Christendom\".\n\nAnother significant artist whose art consistently depicted witches was Dürer's apprentice, Hans Baldung Grien, a 15th-century German artist. His chiaroscuro woodcut, \"Witches\", created in 1510, visually encompassed all the characteristics that were regularly assigned to witches during the Renaissance. Social beliefs labeled witches as supernatural beings capable of doing great harm, possessing the ability to fly, and as cannibalistic. The urn in \"Witches\" seems to contain pieces of the human body, which the witches are seen consuming as a source of energy. Meanwhile, their nudity while feasting is recognized as an allusion to their sexual appetite, and some scholars read the witch riding on the back of a goat-demon as representative of their \"flight-inducing [powers]\". This connection between women's sexual nature and sins was thematic in the pieces of many Renaissance artists, especially Christian artists, due to cultural beliefs which characterized women as overtly sexual beings who were less capable (in comparison to men) of resisting sinful temptation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47988234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47988234", "title": "Women in music", "text": "Women in music\n\nWomen in music describes the role of women as composers, songwriters, instrumental performers, singers, conductors, music scholars, music educators, music critics/music journalists and other musical professions. As well, it describes music movements (e.g., women's music, which is music written and performed by women for women), events and genres related to women, women's issues and feminism. In the 2010s, while women constitute a significant proportion of popular music and classical music singers, and a significant proportion of songwriters (many of them being singer-songwriters), there are few women record producers, rock critics and rock instrumentalists. Notable women artists in pop, such as Bjork and Lady Gaga have commented about sexism and gender discrimination in the music industry. Additionally, a recent study led by Dr. Smith announced that \"...over the last six years, the representation of women in the music industry has been even lower\". In classical music, although there have been a huge number of women composers from the Medieval period to the present day, women composers are significantly underrepresented in the commonly performed classical music repertoire, music history textbooks and music encyclopedias; for example, in the \"Concise Oxford History of Music\", Clara Schumann is one of the only female composers who is mentioned.\n\nWomen constitute a significant proportion of instrumental soloists in classical music and the percentage of women in orchestras is increasing. A 2015 article on concerto soloists in major Canadian orchestras, however, indicated that 84% of the soloists with the Orchestre Symphonique de Montreal were men. In 2012, women still made up just 6% of the top-ranked Vienna Philharmonic orchestra. Women are less common as instrumental players in popular music genres such as rock and heavy metal, although there have been a number of notable female instrumentalists and all-female bands. Women are particularly underrepresented in extreme metal genres. Women are also underrepresented in orchestral conducting, music criticism/music journalism, music producing, and sound engineering. While women were discouraged from composing in the 19th century, and there are few women musicologists, women became involved in music education \"to such a degree that women dominated [this field] during the later half of the 19th century and well into the 20th century.\"\n\nAccording to Jessica Duchen, a music writer for London's \"The Independent\", women musicians in classical music are \"too often judged for their appearances, rather than their talent\" and they face pressure \"to look sexy onstage and in photos.\" Duchen states that while \"[t]here are women musicians who refuse to play on their looks...the ones who do tend to be more materially successful.\" According to the UK's Radio 3 editor, Edwina Wolstencroft, the music industry has long been open to having women in performance or entertainment roles, but women are much less likely to have positions of authority, such as being the conductor of an orchestra, a profession which has been called \"one of the last glass ceilings in the music industry\". In popular music, while there are many women singers recording songs, there are very few women behind the audio console acting as music producers, the individuals who direct and manage the recording process. One of the most recorded artists is a woman, Asha Bhosle, an Indian singer who is best known as a playback singer in Hindi cinema.\n\nA songwriter is an individual who writes the lyrics, melodies and chord progressions for songs, typically for a popular music genre such as pop, rock or country music. A songwriter can also be called a composer, although the latter term tends to be mainly used for individuals from the classical music genre.\n\n\"Only a few of the many women [songwriters] in America had their music published and heard during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\" According to Richard A. Reublin and Richard G. Beil, the \"lack of mention of women [songwriters] is a glaring and embarrassing omission in our musical heritage.\" Women \"struggled to write and publish music in the man's world of 20th century Tin Pan Alley. Prior to 1900 and even after, it was expected that \"women would perform music, not make music.\" In 1880, Chicago music critic George P. Upton wrote the book \"Women In Music\", in which he argued that \"women lacked the innate creativity to compose good music\" due to the \"biological predisposition\" of women. Later, it was accepted that women would have a role in music education, and they became involved in this field \"to such a degree that women dominated music education during the later half of the 19th century and well into the 20th century.\" As part of women's role in music education, women wrote hymns and children's music. The \"secular music in print in America before 1825 shows only about 70 works by women.\" In the mid 19th century, notable women songwriters emerged, including Faustina Hasse Hodges, Susan Parkhurst, Augusta Browne and Marion Dix Sullivan. By 1900, there were many more women songwriters, but \"many were still forced to use pseudonyms or initials\" to hide the fact that they were women.\n\nCarrie Jacobs-Bond was the \"preeminent woman composer of the late 1800's and well into the middle of the twentieth century... [making her] the first million selling woman\" songwriter. Maude Nugent (1877–1958) wrote \"Sweet Rosie O'Grady\" in 1896. She also penned \"Down At Rosie Reilly's Flat\", \"My Irish Daisy\" and \"Mary From Tipperary\". Charlotte Blake (1885–1979) was a staff writer for at the Whitney Warner Publishing Co., in Detroit, Michigan. Initially, the company billed her as \"C. Blake\" to hide her gender, but by 1906 ads used her full name. Caro Roma (1866–1937) was the gender-ambiguous pseudonym for Carrie Northly. She was \"one of America's more well known and popular composers of the Tin Pan Alley era.\" Her songs include \"Can't Yo' Heah Me Calling\", \"Faded Rose\", \"The Angelus\", \"Thinking of Thee\" and \"Resignation\". About 95% of the songwriters in British music hall during the early 1900s were men; however, about 30% of the singers were women.\n\nWhile jazz songwriting has long been a male-dominated field, there have been a few notable women jazz songwriters. In the 1930s, Ann Ronell (1905–1993) wrote several hit songs. She is known for her 1932 hit song \"Willow Weep for Me\" and the 1933 Disney song \"Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?\". Irene Higginbotham (1918–1988) wrote almost 50 songs, her best-known being \"Good Morning Heartache\". Dorothy Fields (1905–1974) wrote the lyrics for over 400 songs, some of which were played by Duke Ellington. She co-wrote \"The Way You Look Tonight\" with Jerome Kern, which won the 1936 Oscar for Best Song. She co-wrote several jazz standards with Jimmy McHugh, such as \"Exactly Like You,\" \"On the Sunny Side of the Street\" and \"I Can't Give You Anything but Love.\" Lil Hardin Armstrong (1898–1971) played piano in King Oliver's Creole Jazz Band. Her most famous song, \"Struttin' with Some Barbecue\" has been recorded 500 times. Her other notable songs are \"Doin' the Suzie Q,\" \"Just for a Thrill\" and \"Bad Boy\". While Billie Holiday (1915–1959) is best known as a singer, she co-wrote \"God Bless the Child\" and \"Don't Explain\" with Arthur Herzog, Jr. and she penned the blues song \"Fine and Mellow.\"\n\nIn the 1960s pop music scene, \"[l]ike most aspects of the...music business [in the 1960s], songwriting was a male-dominated field. Though there were plenty of female singers on the radio, women ...were primarily seen as consumers:... Singing was sometimes an acceptable pastime for a girl, but playing an instrument, writing songs, or producing records simply wasn't done.\" Young women \"were not socialized to see themselves as people who create [music].\" Carole King \"had a successful songwriting partnershi[p] with husband Gerry Goffin, penning hits like \"The Loco-Motion,\" \"Will You Love Me Tomorrow\", \"Up on the Roof\" and \"Natural Woman\". \"King was the first female recipient of the 2013 Gershwin Prize for Popular Song.\" Ellie Greenwich and her husband Jeff Barry wrote \"Then He Kissed Me\", \"Be My Baby\" and \"River Deep, Mountain High\". Laura Nyro penned \"Wedding Bell Blues\", \"Eli's Coming\" and \"And When I Die\". She stated \"I'm not interested in conventional limitations when it comes to my songwriting….I may bring a certain feminist perspective to my songwriting.\"\nBy the late 1960s a new wave of female singer-songwriters broke from the confines of pop, using the urban landscape as their canvass for lyrics in the confessional style of poets like Anne Sexton and Sylvia Plath. These pioneering women, appeared in a feature in Newsweek, July, 1969, \"The Girls: Letting Go\": \"What is common to them – to Joni Mitchell and Lotti Golden, to Laura Nyro, Melanie, Janis Ian and to Elyse Weinberg, are the personalised songs they write, like voyages of self-discovery. Grace Slick a former model, was widely known in rock and roll history for her role in San Francisco's burgeoning psychedelic music scene in the mid–1960s.\" In \"The Guardian\", 26 January 2017, author Laura Barton describes the radical shift in subject matter — politics, drugs, disappointment, the isolation of the itinerant performer, and urban life. Native New Yorker, Lotti Golden, in her Atlantic debut album \"Motor-Cycle\", chronicled her life in NYC's East Village in the late '60s counterculture, visiting subjects such as gender identity (The Space Queens-Silky is Sad) and excessive drug use (Gonna Fay's). The women in the 1969 Newsweek article ushered in a new age of the singer-songwriter, informing generations of women singer-songwriters.\n\nIn musical theatre, \"female songwriters are rare in an industry dominated by males on the creative end. Work by male songwriters is more often produced, and it was only [in 2015] that an all-female writing team made history by winning the Tony Award for Best Score.\" In 2015, for the first time, an all-female writing team of Lisa Kron (Best Book) and Jeanine Tesori and Kron (Best Original Score) won the Tony Award for Best Score for \"Fun Home\", although work by male songwriters continues to be produced more often. In 2013, Cyndi Lauper was the \"first female composer to win the [Tony for] Best Score without a male collaborator\" for writing the music and lyrics for \"Kinky Boots\". Notable female songwriters in musical theatre include singer-songwriter and actress Lauren Pritchard, who wrote \"Songbird\"; Zoe Sarnak, who wrote \"A Lasting Impression\" and \"The Years Between\"; and Katie Thompson, who would like to \"see women characters... that are complicated and strong and vulnerable.\" Thompson stated that in the musical theatre industry, \"when you fight for something as a woman, especially an artistic thing ..you are either perceived as being a bitch or you are perceived [as] 'emotional'\", a label that enables others to dismiss you.\n\nAccording to LaShonda Katrice Barnett, a college and university teacher and author of a book on black women songwriters, of the \"over 380 members of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, just 2 are black women (Sylvia Moy and Valerie Simpson)\". Barnett asks \"[w]hy are there so few prominent black women songwriters?\" Barnett states that two important black women songwriters are Abbey Lincoln, a rare example of a jazz singer who wrote her own albums and Cassandra Wilson, who records both her own songs and \"covers\" of famous artists.\n\nBelow is a selection of notable songwriters. Many of these individuals are singer-songwriters who also famous for their singing and/or instrumental performance skills, but they are listed here for their accomplishments in songwriting:\n\n\nAmerican musicologist Marcia Citron has asked \"[w]hy is music composed by women so marginal to the standard 'classical' repertoire?\" Citron \"examines the practices and attitudes that have led to the exclusion of women composers from the received 'canon' of performed musical works.\" She argues that in the 1800s, women composers typically wrote art songs for performance in small recitals rather than symphonies intended for performance with an orchestra in a large hall, with the latter works being seen as the most important genre for composers; since women composers did not write many symphonies, they were deemed to be not notable as composers.\n\nAccording to Abbey Philips, \"women musicians have had a very difficult time breaking through and getting the credit they deserve\". During the Medieval eras, most of the art music was created for liturgical (religious) purposes and due to the views about the roles of women that were held by religious leaders, few women composed this type of music, with the nun Hildegard von Bingen being among the exceptions. Most university textbooks on the history of music discuss almost exclusively the role of male composers. As well, very few works by women composers are part of the standard repertoire of classical music. In the \"Concise Oxford History of Music\", Clara Schumann is the only woman composer who is mentioned. Philips states that \"[d]uring the 20th century the women who were composing/playing gained far less attention than their male counterparts\".\n\nHildegard von Bingen (1098–1179) was a German Benedictine abbess, composer, writer, philosopher, and visionary. One of her works as a composer, the \"Ordo Virtutum\", is an early example of liturgical drama and an early morality play. Some writers have speculated a distant origin for opera in this piece, though without any evidence. Sixty-nine musical compositions, each with its own original poetic text, survive. This is one of the largest repertoires among medieval composers. Hildegard composed many liturgical songs that were collected into a cycle called the \"Symphonia armoniae celestium revelationum.\" The songs from the Symphonia are set to Hildegard's own text and range from antiphons, hymns, and sequences, to responsories. Her music is described as monophonic, using soaring melodies that pushed the boundaries of the more traditional Gregorian chant.\n\nMaddalena Casulana (1544–1590) was an Italian composer, lutenist and singer. Her first work dates from 1566: four madrigals in a collection, \"Il Desiderio\", which she produced in Florence. Two years later she published in Venice her first book of madrigals for four voices, \"Il primo libro di madrigali\", which is the first printed, published work by a woman in Western music history. She was close to Isabella de' Medici and dedicated some of her music to her. In 1570, 1583 and 1586 she published other books of madrigals. In the dedication to her first book of madrigals, she shows her feelings about being a female composer at a time when this was rare: \"[I] want to show the world, as much as I can in this profession of music, the vain error of men that they alone possess the gifts of intellect and artistry, and that such gifts are never given to women.\" \nHer style is contrapuntal and chromatic and her melodic lines are singable and attentive to the text. Other composers of the time, such as Philippe de Monte, thought highly of her.\n\nCaterina Assandra (1590–1618) was an Italian composer and Benedictine nun. She became famous as an organist and published various works. Assandra composed a number of motets and organ pieces. She studied counterpoint with Benedetto Re, one of the leading teachers at Pavia Cathedral. She composed a collection of motets in the new concertato style in Milan in 1609, an imitative eight-voice \"Salve Regina\" in 1611, and a motet, \"Audite verbum Dominum,\" for four voices in 1618. She composed traditional pieces and more innovative works. Among the latter is \"Duo seraphim.\" Her motet \"O Salutaris hodie,\" included in \"Motetti\" op. 2, was one of the first pieces to include the violone, a bowed stringed instrument.\n\nFrancesca Caccini (1587–1641) was an Italian composer, singer, lutenist, poet, and music teacher. Her singing for the wedding of Henry IV of France and Maria de Medici in 1600 was praised by Henry, who called her the \"best singer in all of France\". She worked in the Medici court as a teacher, chamber singer, rehearsal coach and composer of both chamber and stage music until 1627. By 1614 she was the court's most highly paid musician, because her musical virtuosity so well exemplified an idea of female excellence projected by Tuscany's de facto Regent, Granduchess Christina of Lorraine. Most of her stage music was composed for performance in comedies. In 1618 she published a collection of thirty-six solo songs and soprano/bass duets. In 1625 she composed a 75-minute \"comedy-ballet\". In all, she wrote sixteen staged works. She was a master of dramatic harmonic surprise: in her music it is harmony changes, more than counterpoint, that most powerfully communicates emotional affect.\n\nBarbara Strozzi (1619–1677) was an Italian Baroque composer and singer. As a child, her considerable vocal talents were displayed to a wide audience. She was also compositionally gifted, and her father arranged for her to study with composer Francesco Cavalli. Strozzi was said to be \"the most prolific composer – man or woman – of printed secular vocal music in Venice in the Middle of the century\". Her output is also unique in that it only contains secular vocal music, with the exception of one volume of sacred songs. She was renowned for her poetic ability as well as her compositional talent. Her lyrics were often poetic and well-articulated. Nearly three-quarters of her printed works were written for soprano, but she also published works for other voices. Her compositions are firmly rooted in the \"seconda pratica\" tradition. Strozzi's music evokes the spirit of Cavalli, heir of Monteverdi. However, her style is more lyrical, and more dependent on sheer vocal sound. Many of the texts for her early pieces were written by her father Giulio. Later texts were written by her father's colleagues, and for many compositions she may have written her own texts.\n\nÉlisabeth Jacquet de La Guerre (1665–1729) was a French composer, musician and harpsichordist. She was born into a family of musicians and master instrument-makers. A child prodigy, she performed on the harpsichord before King Louis XIV. She became a musician in the Royal Court and taught, composed, and gave concerts at home and throughout Paris, to great acclaim. She was one of the few well-known female composers of her time, and unlike many of her contemporaries, she composed in a wide variety of forms. Her talent and achievements were acknowledged by Titon du Tillet, who accorded her a place on his \"Mount Parnassus\" when she was only 26 years old, next to Lalande and Marais and directly below Lully. Her works include a ballet, an opera (\"Céphale et Procris\"), trio sonatas, harpsichord pieces, \"Sonates pour le viollon et pour le clavecin\" and vocal works such as her \"Cantates françoises sur des sujets tirez de l'Ecriture\".\n\nHarriett Abrams (1758–1821) was an English composer and soprano. As a singer, she was praised for her performances of George Frideric Handel. She studied singing, music theory, and composition with composer Thomas Arne before making her opera début in 1775 at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in London. Abrams became a principal singer at the fashionable London concerts and provincial festivals, appearing regularly from 1780–1790. Abrams composed several songs, two of which, \"The Orphan's Prayer\" and \"Crazy Jane\", became popular. She published two sets of Italian and English canzonets, a collection of Scottish songs and glees harmonized for two and three voices, and more than a dozen songs, mainly sentimental ballads. A collection of songs published in 1803 was dedicated by Harriett to Queen Charlotte.\n\nMaria Teresa Agnesi (1720–1795) was an Italian composer. Though she was most famous for her compositions, she was also an accomplished harpsichordist and singer. The majority of her surviving compositions were written for keyboard, the voice, or both. Her career was made possible by the Austrian Lombardy, which was progressive and enlightened in women's rights. Her patron was Maria Theresia, holy Roman Empress and sovereign of Lombardy, and Maria Antonia Walpurgis, a gifted composer and contemporary. Her early works are simple and clean, while her later works are more virtuosic, complex, and melodramatic. She composed operas, including heroic drama and serious drama styles. She also wrote arias, concertos and sonatas for keyboard, small ensemble and voice.\n\nPrincess Anna Amalia (1723–1787) was a Prussian composer and score curator. She learned to play the harpsichord, flute, and violin as a young woman. She became the Abbess of Quedlinburg in 1755. She spent most of her time in Berlin, where she devoted herself to music, and became a musical patron and composer. As a composer she achieved a modest amount of fame and is most known for her smaller chamber works, which included trios, marches, cantatas, songs and fugues. In 1758, she studied musical theory and composition with Johann Philipp Kirnberger, a student of Johann Sebastian Bach. She composed chamber music such as flute sonatas. More, she set the text of Ramler's Passion cantata \"Der Tod Jesu\" (\"The Death of Jesus\") to music. She was also a collector of music, preserving over 600 volumes of works by Johann Sebastian Bach, George Frideric Handel, Georg Philipp Telemann, Karl Heinrich Graun and Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, among others. Her works of curation are a significant contribution to Western culture.\nElisabeth Olin (1740–1828) was a Swedish opera singer and composer. She debuted as Alfhild in \"Syrinx\" referred to as Sweden's first native Opera comique, at \"Bollhuset\" in 1747. She became a famed vocalist in the regular public concerts at \"Riddarhuset\" in Stockholm, and published her own compositions; she was one of the Swedish composers who wrote one composition each for the collection \"Gustaviade. En hjältedikt i tolv sånger\" ('Gustaviade. A heroic poem of twelve songs') from 1768; where she wrote the composition number eight. At the inauguration performance and foundation of the Royal Swedish Opera on 18 January 1773, she sang the role of the Sea Goddess Thetis in Francesco Uttini's opera \"Thetis och Pélée\". She remained the primadonna of the Swedish opera for a decade. In 1773, she became the first female to be granted the title \"Hovsångare\", and in 1782, she was inducted as the first female member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Music.\nHenriette Adélaïde Villard de Beaumesnil (1748–1813) was a French composer and opera singer. She began working in minor comedy roles from the age of seven and debuted as a soloist at the Paris Opera in 1766. She was the second woman to have a composition performed at the Paris Opéra. Previously the Paris Opera had staged the tragédie-lyrique \"Céphale et Procris\" by Élisabeth Jacquet de La Guerre, in 1694. \"Anacréon\", her first opera, received a private performance at the residence of the Count of Provence in 1781. In 1784, her opera \"Tibulle et Délie\" was performed at the Paris Opera. In 1792, her two-act opéra comique, \"Plaire, c'est commander\" was performed at the Théâtre Montansier.\n\nAnna Bon (1739–1767?) was an Italian composer and performer. She attended the Ospedale della Pietà in Venice where she studied with the maestra di viola, Candida della Pièta. She held the new post of 'chamber music virtuosa' at the court of Margrave Friedrich of Brandenburg Kulmbach. She dedicated her six op. 1 flute sonatas, published in Nürnberg in 1756, to Friedrich. In 1762 she moved to the Esterházy court at Eisenstadt, where she remained until 1765. She dedicated the published set of six harpsichord sonatas, op. 2 (1757), to Ernestina Augusta Sophia, Princess of Saxe-Weimar, and the set of six divertimenti (trio sonatas), op. 3 (1759), to Charles Theodore, Elector of Bavaria. She also wrote six divertimenti for two flutes and basso continuo; an aria, \"Astra coeli\", for soprano, 2 violins, viola, and basso continuo; an offertory, \"Ardete amore\", for singers, instruments and basso continuo; a motet, \"Eia in preces et veloces\", for alto, 2 violins, viola, and basso continuo and an opera.\nJane Mary Guest (1762–1846) was an English composer and pianist. A pupil of Johann Christian Bach, and initially composing in the galante style, she composed keyboard sonatas, other keyboard works and vocal works with keyboard accompaniment. She was piano teacher to Princess Amelia and Princess Charlotte of Wales. She performed in London from 1779, giving subscription concerts there in 1783/84. She was known for her expressive style of playing. Around this time she published her Six Sonatas, Op. 1, which gained extensive subscriptions, including from royalty, and which were also published in Paris in 1784 and Berlin in 1785. In addition to her keyboard sonatas, she also composed other keyboard pieces, such as her Introduction and March from Rossini's \"Ricciardo e Zoraide\" (1820) and a number of songs with keyboard accompaniment.\n\nMarianne von Martinez (1744–1812) was an Austrian composer, singer and pianist. Metastasio noticed her precocious talents and came to oversee her musical education, which included keyboard lessons from Haydn, singing lessons with Porpora and composition lessons with Johann Adolph Hasse and the Imperial court composer Giuseppe Bonno. She was a native speaker of both Italian and German and knew French and English. As a child, she played for the Imperial court, where she \"attracted attention with her beautiful voice and her keyboard playing\". As an adult, she was frequently asked to perform before the Empress Maria Theresa. A number of the works that Marianna composed are set for solo voice. She wrote a number of secular cantatas and two oratorios to Italian texts. Surviving compositions include four masses, six motets, and three litanies for choir. She wrote in the Italian style, as was typical for the early Classical period in Vienna. Her harpsichord performance practice was compared to the style of C.P.E. Bach. Her Italian oratorio \"Isacco figura del redentore\" was premiered by massive forces in 1782.\n\nMaria Szymanowska (1789–1831) was a well-known Polish composer and pianist. She wrote in many of the same genres as fellow Pole Frederic Chopin (1810–1849). Szymanowska maintained connections with several famous nineteenth-century people, including Gioacchino Rossini, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, and Adam Mickiewicz, Poland's greatest poet.\n\nFanny Mendelssohn (1805–1847) was one of the best-known women composers of the 1800s. She showed prodigious musical ability as a child and began to write music. Even though famous visitors to her family home were equally impressed by Fanny and her brother Felix Mendelssohn, Fanny was limited by prevailing attitudes of the time toward women. Her father was tolerant, rather than supportive, of her activities as a composer. Her father wrote to her in 1820, telling her that \"[m]usic will perhaps become his [i.e. Felix's] profession, while for \"you\" it can and must be only an ornament [in your life]\". Felix cautioned her against publishing her works under her own name and seeking a career in music. He wrote:\n'From my knowledge of Fanny I should say that she has neither inclination nor vocation for [musical] authorship. She is too much all that a woman ought to be for this. She regulates her house, and neither thinks of the public nor of the musical world, nor even of music at all, until her first duties are fulfilled. Publishing would only disturb her in these, and I cannot say that I approve of it'. \n\nClara Schumann (1819–1896) was a German composer and concert pianist who had a 61-year concert career, which changed the format and repertoire of the piano recital and the tastes of the listening public. From an early age, she had a one-hour lesson in piano, violin, singing, theory, harmony, composition, and counterpoint. In 1830, at the age of eleven, she had become a virtuoso soloist and she left on a concert tour of European cities. In the late 1830s, she performed to sell-out crowds and laudatory critical reviews. Frédéric Chopin described her playing to Franz Liszt, who came to hear one of her concerts and subsequently \"praised her extravagantly\" in a letter that was published in the Parisian \"Revue et Gazette Musicale\". She was named a \"Königliche und Kaiserliche Kammervirtuosin\" (\"Royal and Imperial Chamber Virtuoso\"), Austria's highest musical honor.\n\nShe was also instrumental in changing the kind of programs expected of concert pianists. In her early career, before her marriage to Robert Schumann, she played what was then customary, mainly bravura pieces designed to showcase the artist's technique, often in the form of arrangements or variations on popular themes from operas, written by virtuosos such as Thalberg, Herz, or Henselt. As it was also customary to play one's own compositions, she included at least one of her own works in every program, works such as her Variations on a Theme by Bellini (Op. 8) and her popular Scherzo (Op. 10). Her works include songs, piano pieces, a piano concerto, a piano trio, choral pieces, and three Romances for violin and piano. \n\nKatherine Hoover (born 1937) studied music at the University of Rochester and the Eastman School of Music, where she earned a Performance Certificate in Flute and a Bachelor's of Music in Music Theory in 1959. She started publishing professional works in 1965, with her \"Duet for Two Violins\". Hoover was the winner of the National Flute Association's Newly Published Music Competition twice, first in 1987 with her piece \"Medieval Suite\" and second in 1991 with her piece \"Kokopelli\" for solo flute. These pieces utilize many extended techniques for flute, such as pitch bending. Many of her works have been recorded by renowned musicians and performed in Carnegie Hall.\n\nJoan Tower (born 1938) wrote her 1976 piece \"Black Topaz\", which features many tonal melodies and harmonies. She received her DMA in composition from Columbia University in 1978. She was commissioned in 1979 by the American Composers Orchestra, resulting in her first orchestral work, \"Sequoia\". This has been performed by numerous orchestras worldwide. From 1985-1988 Tower was the composer-in-residence at the St. Louis Symphony. In 1990 she was the first woman to win the Grawemeyer Award for Music Composition, which included a prize of $150,000. Since then, Tower has been the composer-in-residence at numerous music festivals, including the Norfolk Chamber Music Festival and Tanglewood Contemporary Music Festival. Tower has been a professor of music at Bard College in New York since 1982 and is considered one of the most influential women composers of the 20th century.\n\nEllen Taaffe Zwilich (born 1939) received her Doctorate in Composition from Juilliard and was the first woman to ever achieve this. The same year, she won a gold medal at the International Composition Competition in Italy. In 1983 Zwilich made history again, becoming the first woman to win the Pulitzer Prize in music for her \"Symphony No. 1.\" Since this success, she has received many commissions. Her piece \"Millennium\" has been performed by twenty-seven orchestras since its premiere in 2000. She has been the Francis Eppes Professor of Music at Florida State University since 1999. Zwilich is known to have an 'eclectic millennial voice' in her compositions, utilizing a clear design and rich timbres. Though her music was originally very dissonant and influenced by the Second Viennese School, her style became more emotional after the death of her husband.\n\nLibby Larsen (born 1950) earned her MM in 1975 from the University of Minnesota and her PhD from the same school in 1978. In 1973 she co-founded the Minnesota Composers Forum, now known as the American Composer's Forum. Larsen was the composer-in-residence at the Minnesota Orchestra from 1983-1987. Larsen composed over 220 works, including orchestra, dance, opera, choral, theater, chamber, and solo repertoire. Her pieces have been performed across the United States and Europe. Larsen is a strong supporter of contemporary music and female musicians, and she won a Grammy Award for her CD \"The Art of Arleen Auger\" in 1994. Larsen won the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Academy of Arts and Letters in 2000 and published her book \"The Concert Hall That Fell Asleep and Woke Up as a Car Radio\" in 2007.\n\nJennifer Higdon (born 1962) earned an MA and PhD from the University of Philadelphia in 1994. Higdon has received awards from the Guggenheim Foundation, American Academy of Arts and Letters, International League of Women's Composers, and others. Her 1996 work \"Shine\" was named Best Contemporary Piece by USA Today. Of Higdon's many pieces, \"blue cathedral\" is most frequently performed. In 2010, Higdon won the Grammy award of Best Contemporary Classical Composition for her \"Percussion Concerto\". Also in 2010 she won the Pulitzer Prize in Music for her composition \"Violin Concerto\", premiered by Hilary Hahn.\n\nAdditional notable female composers are listed below. Some are also notable as performers (e.g. Amy Beach and Verdina Shlonsky were noted pianists). For a full list, see List of female composers by birth year.\n\nWomen have a high prominence in many popular music styles as singers. However, professional women instrumentalists are uncommon in popular music, especially in rock genres such as heavy metal. \"[P]laying in a band is largely a male homosocial activity, that is, learning to play in a band is largely a peer-based... experience, shaped by existing sex-segregated friendship networks. As well, rock music \"is often defined as a form of male rebellion vis-à-vis female bedroom culture.\" In popular music, there has been a gendered \"distinction between public (male) and private (female) participation\" in music. \"[S]everal scholars have argued that men exclude women from bands or from the bands' rehearsals, recordings, performances, and other social activities.\" \"Women are mainly regarded as passive and private consumers of allegedly slick, prefabricated – hence, inferior – pop music..., excluding them from participating as high status rock musicians.\" One of the reasons that there are rarely mixed gender bands is that \"bands operate as tight-knit units in which homosocial solidarity – social bonds between people of the same sex... – plays a crucial role.\" In the 1960s pop music scene, \"[s]inging was sometimes an acceptable pastime for a girl, but playing an instrument...simply wasn't done.\"\n\n\"The rebellion of rock music was largely a male rebellion; the women—often, in the 1950s and '60s, girls in their teens—in rock usually sang songs as personæ utterly dependent on their macho boyfriends...\". Philip Auslander says that \"Although there were many women in rock by the late 1960s, most performed only as singers, a traditionally feminine position in popular music\". Though some women played instruments in American all-female garage rock bands, none of these bands achieved more than regional success. So they \"did not provide viable templates for women's on-going participation in rock\". In relation to the gender composition of heavy metal bands, it has been said that \"[h]eavy metal performers are almost exclusively male\" \"[a]t least until the mid-1980s\" apart from \"exceptions such as Girlschool.\" However, \"now [in the 2010s] maybe more than ever–strong metal women have put up their dukes and got down to it\", \"carv[ing] out a considerable place for [them]selves.\"\nWhen Suzi Quatro emerged in 1973, \"no other prominent female musician worked in rock simultaneously as a singer, instrumentalist, songwriter, and bandleader\". According to Auslander, she was \"kicking down the male door in rock and roll and proving that a female \"musician\" ... and this is a point I am extremely concerned about ... could play as well if not better than the boys\".\n\nA number of these artists are also notable for singing and songwriting, but they are listed here for their instrumental skills:\n\nAn all-female band is a musical group in popular music genres such as rock, blues, jazz and related genres which is exclusively composed of female musicians. This is distinct from a girl group, in which the female members are solely vocalists, though this terminology is not universally followed. While all-male bands are common in many rock and pop bands, all-female bands are less common.\n\nA girl group is a music act featuring several female singers who generally harmonize together. The term \"girl group\" is also used in a narrower sense within English-speaking countries to denote the wave of American female pop music singing groups which flourished in the late 1950s and early 1960s between the decline of early rock and roll and the British Invasion, many of whom were influenced by doo-wop style. All-female bands are sometimes also called girl groups.\n\nIn the Jazz Age and during the 1930s, all-female bands such as The Blue Belles, the Parisian Redheads (later the Bricktops), Lil-Hardin's All-Girl Band, The Ingenues, The Harlem Playgirls, Phil Spitalny's Musical Sweethearts and \"Helen Lewis and Her All-Girl Jazz Syncopators\" were popular.Ina Ray Hutton led an all-girl band, the Melodears, from 1934 to 1939. Eunice Westmoreland, under the name Rita Rio, led an all-female band appearing on NBC Radio and for Vitaphone and RKO. A Polish group Filipinki was established in 1959.\n\nGroups composed solely of women began to emerge with the advent of rock and roll. Among the earliest all-female rock bands to be signed to a record label were Goldie & the Gingerbreads, to Atlantic Records in 1964, The Pleasure Seekers with Suzi Quatro to Hideout Records in 1964 and Mercury Records in 1968, The Feminine Complex to Athena Records in 1968, and Fanny (who pioneered the all-female band sound in the early to mid-1970s) in 1969 when Mo Ostin signed them to Warner Bros. Records. There were also others, such as The Liverbirds (1962–1967), the Ace of Cups (1967), The Heart Beats (1968), and Ariel (1968–1970).\n\nIn 1971 Fanny became the first all-female band to reach the Hot 100's top 40, with \"Charity Ball\" peaking at No. 40. In 1975, the Canadian duo of sisters, Kate and Anna McGarrigle, recorded the first of a string of albums. The Runaways were an early commercially successful, hard-edged, all-female hard rock band, releasing their first album in 1976: band members Joan Jett, Cherie Currie and Lita Ford all went on to solo careers. The 1980s, for the first time, saw long-sought chart success from all-female bands and female-fronted rock bands. On the Billboard Hot 100-year-end chart for 1982 Joan Jett's \"I Love Rock 'n' Roll\" at No. 3 and the Go-Go's \"We Got the Beat\" at No. 25 sent a message out to many industry heads that females who could play could bring in money.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the advent of punk in the late 1970s with its \"anyone can do it\" ethos led to women making significant contributions. In contrast to the rock music and heavy metal scenes of the 1970s, which were dominated by men, the anarchic, counter-cultural mindset of the punk scene in mid- and late 1970s encouraged women to participate. \"That was the beauty of the punk thing,\" Chrissie Hynde later said.\" [Sexual] discrimination didn't exist in that scene.\" This participation played a role in the historical development of punk music, especially in the U.S. and U.K. at that time, and continues to influence and enable future generations.\n\nRock historian Helen Reddington states that the popular image of young punk women musicians as focused on the fashion aspects of the scene (fishnet stockings, spiky blond hair, etc.) was stereotypical. She states that many, if not most women punks were more interested in the ideology and socio-political implications, rather than the fashion. Music historian Caroline Coon contends that before punk, women in rock music were virtually invisible; in contrast, in punk, she argues \"[i]t would be possible to write the whole history of punk music without mentioning any male bands at all -- and I think a lot of [people] would find that very surprising.\" Johnny Rotten wrote that \"During the Pistols era, women were out there playing with the men, taking us on in equal terms ... It wasn't combative, but compatible.\" Women were involved in bands such as The Slits, The Raincoats, Mo-dettes, and Dolly Mixture, The Innocents.\n\nOthers take issue with the notion of equal recognition, such as guitarist Viv Albertine, who stated that \"the A&R men, the bouncers, the sound mixers, no one took us seriously.. So, no, we got no respect anywhere we went. People just didn't want us around.\" The anti-establishment stance of punk opened the space for women who were treated like outsiders in a male-dominated industry. Sonic Youth's Kim Gordon states, \"I think women are natural anarchists, because you're always operating in a male framework.\"\n\nThe all-female heavy metal band Girlschool, from South London, formed in 1978 out of the ashes of Painted Lady. While somewhat successful in the UK, they became better known in the early 1980s. One of the original members of the band, Kathy Valentine departed to join the all-female band The Go-Go's, switching from guitar to bass. Among Girlschool's early recordings was an EP titled \"The St. Valentines Day Massacre\" which they recorded with Bronze label-mates Motörhead under the name Headgirl. In 1974, The Deadly Nightshade, a rock/country band, was signed by Phantom. Women in the heavy metal genre tend to have to limit themselves due to the genre being very male orientated.\n\nWhile there is a perception that the groups in the 1980s and 1990s alternative rock genre of grunge were \"overwhelmingly male\" (e.g., Nirvana), \"[w]omen were totally represented\" in grunge bands such as L7, Lunachicks, Dickless, STP, 7 Year Bitch, Courtney Love's group Hole and Babes in Toyland, the latter an \"all-female Minneapolis band\", and grunge was \"inextricably linked with Riot Grrrl\", an underground feminist punk movement. Notable women instrumentalists include the bassists D'arcy Wretzky and Melissa Auf der Maur from The Smashing Pumpkins and drummers Patty Schemel (Hole and Courtney Love projects) and Lori Barbero of Babes in Toyland.\n\nIn the 1990s, musician's magazines were starting to view female musicians more seriously, putting Bonnie Raitt and Tina Weymouth on their covers. While The Go-Go's and The Bangles, both from the LA club scene, were the first all-female rock bands to find sustained success, individual musicians paved the way for the industry to seek out bands that had female musicians.\n\nIn the 1990s, bands such as Hole, Super Heroines, The Lovedolls and L7 became popular, while demonstrating on stage, and in interviews, a self-confident and \"bad\" attitude at times, always willing to challenge assumptions about how an all-female band should behave. Courtney Love described the other females in Hole as using a more \"lunar viewpoint\" in their roles as musicians. In the 1990s, the punk, female-led Riot Grrrl genre was associated with bands such as Bratmobile and Bikini Kill.\n\nIn the 2000s, all female and female fronted bands started using their influence to promote feminism and females in the music industry. Bands like The Distillers, fronted by Brody Dalle, influenced the rise of street punk. St. Vincent started gaining more traction and eventually appeared on the cover of Guitar World magazine. St. Vincent wore a T-shirt with a bikini decal on the magazine cover, a comment on how when women appear with guitars, they're usually dressed very minimally, as a marketing tool to sell the instruments. Haim, a band composed of three sisters, is extremely outspoken when it comes to the promotion of women in music, calling out major music festivals for the lack of female-fronted bands on bills and the lack of payment for female artists as compared to male artists of the same level. In recent years, the lack of female representation in music has been a major controversial point in the industry. Female musicians and bands are constantly overlooked in favor of male artists, however many people in the music industry have been making an effort to change this.\n\nHistorically, the majority of well-known women performers in jazz have been singers, such as Ella Fitzgerald, Billie Holiday, Diane Schuur and Dinah Washington. \"Culture Trip\" notes that women in jazz have been \"too often confined to the role of chanteuse.\" However, there are many notable instrumental performers. In some cases, these musicians are also composers and bandleaders:\n\nThere have also been all-female jazz bands such as The International Sweethearts of Rhythm.\n\nInstrumentalists in classical music may focus on one specific type of playing, such as solo recitals, solo concertos, chamber music, or performing as a member of an orchestra, or they may do different types. Some musicians who play orchestral instruments may do all of these types of performances. Instrumentalists in classical music may do both live performances for an audience and recordings. In some cases, classical performers may do mostly live performances. There has traditionally been a gendered aspect to playing instruments in classical music.\n\nMany album covers for female classical musicians have photographs that emphasize the physical attractiveness of the performer, \"often using risqué images\". According to Jessica Duchen, a music writer for London's \"The Independent\", Classical women musicians are \"too often judged for their appearances, rather than their talent\" and they face pressure \"to look sexy onstage and in photos.\" Duchen states that while \"[t]here are women musicians who refuse to play on their looks...the ones who do tend to be more materially successful.\"\n\nHistorically, orchestras tended to be almost exclusively male, with the exception of the harp player, as the harp was considered a \"women's instrument\". A music newspaper editorial in 1917 in England encouraged orchestras to allow women to play the \"lighter instruments\", with the understanding that these women performers would relinquish their positions to men once WW I was over. In the 1990s, to reduce the likelihood of gender bias, some orchestras began conducting auditions of potential new members behind a screen, so the audition panel could not see if it was a male or female performer. Historically, there has been a tendency for brass sections to be male, and some women brass players have alleged that there is gender bias against female brass players. A study in the 1980s found that women made up 36% of US orchestras; 30% in the United Kingdom, and 16% in East and West Germany. Women tended to be hired by lower paid orchestras and they were less present in major orchestras.\n\nIn the past, the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra argued that \"ethnic and gender uniformity\" gave their orchestra a better sound. Several male VPO musicians stated in a 1996 interview that classical music has \"gender-defined qualities which can be most clearly expressed by male uniformity\" in the orchestra. One male VPO member stated that men \"carry secrets that are involved with music and tones, just like in Australian aboriginal or Indian cultures where men play certain instruments, and not the women.\" One male VPO performer stated that \"pregnancy brings problems. It brings disorder. Another important argument against women is that they can bring the solidarity of the men in question. You find that in all men's groups.\"\n\nThe Vienna Philharmonic did not accept women to permanent membership until 1997, far later than comparable orchestras (of the other orchestras ranked among the world's top five by Gramophone in 2008, the last to appoint a woman to a permanent position was the Berlin Philharmonic.) As late as February 1996, first flautist Dieter Flury told Westdeutscher Rundfunk that accepting women would be \"gambling with the emotional unity () that this organism currently has\". In April 1996, the orchestra's press secretary wrote that \"compensating for the expected leaves of absence\" of maternity leave was a problem.\nIn 1997, the orchestra was \"facing protests during a [US] tour\" by the National Organization for Women and International Association of Women in Music. Finally, \"after being held up to increasing ridicule even in socially conservative Austria, members of the orchestra gathered [on 28 February 1997] in an extraordinary meeting on the eve of their departure and agreed to admit a woman, Anna Lelkes, as harpist.\" As of 2013, the orchestra has six female members; one of them, violinist Albena Danailova became one of the orchestra's concertmasters in 2008, the first woman to hold that position. In 2012, women still made up just 6% of the orchestra's membership, compared to 14% in the Berlin Philharmonic, 30% in the London Symphony Orchestra, and 36% in the New York Philharmonic. VPO president Clemens Hellsberg said the VPO now uses completely screened blind auditions. She said it chooses \"the best we get,\" implying that full gender equity would take time as older members retire and new ones audition under gender-neutral conditions. The Czech Philharmonic excludes women and the Berlin Philharmonic \"has a history of gender discrimination.\"\n\nIn 2013, an article in \"Mother Jones\" stated that \"[m]any prestigious orchestras have significant female membership—women outnumber men in the New York Philharmonic's violin section—and several renowned ensembles, including the National Symphony Orchestra, the Detroit Symphony, and the Minnesota Symphony, are led by women violinists. Brass, percussion, and string-bass orchestra sections are still predominantly male.\"\n\nIn classical music, soloists may perform unaccompanied solos on their instrument, as occurs with pianists who play works for solo piano or stringed instruments who play Baroque suites for one instrument (e.g., Bach suites for solo cello). In many cases, though, soloists are accompanied, either by a pianist, a small chamber music ensemble, or, in the case of a concerto, by a full symphony orchestra. In the 2014–2015 season, the majority of concerto soloists who performed with major Canadian orchestras were male. In the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra, 67% of the concerto soloists were male. In the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, 74% of the concerto soloists were male. In the National Arts Centre Orchestra, 79% of the concerto soloists were male. In the Orchestre Symphonique de Montreal, 84% of the concerto soloists were male. When the CBC news story on the gender balance of concerto soloists was released, the conductor of the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra, Bramwell Tovey, disputed the accuracy of the news story in regards to his orchestra, arguing that the article only took a single season into account.\n\nSingers in popular music perform the vocals for bands and other music groups, which may range in size from a duo or a power trio to a large jazz big band. Singers typically do both live performances and studio recordings. Singers who do live performances may sing in small venues such as coffeehouses or nightclubs, or they may perform in larger venues ranging from arts centres to stadiums. Some singers also perform in music videos, which are used to promote the songs. In some styles of music, singers may play a rhythm section instrument, such as rhythm guitar, electric bass or a percussion instrument while they sing. In some styles of pop, singers perform choreographed dance moves during the show. Two well-known examples of pop singers who perform elaborate dance routines in their live shows are Madonna and Britney Spears.\n\nSinger-songwriter and music producer Bjork has commented on how \"women's labor and expertise—inside and outside of the music industry—go unnoticed.\" She has stated that \"[I]t's invisible, what women do,\" and \"[I]t's not rewarded as much.\" Bjork states \"that her male collaborators are typically credited for the sound of her records; because on stage she mainly sings, there is a widespread assumption that she neither produces [as a music producer] nor plays an instrument.\" In 2015, \"while accepting the Woman of the Year honor at this year's Billboard Women in Music event\", Lady Gaga commented on the \"difficulties of being a female recording artist.\" She said it \"is really hard sometimes for women in music. It's like a f[uck]ing boys club that we just can't get in to.\" She stated that she \"tried for so long... to be taken seriously as a musician for my intelligence more than my body\", yet she felt that others in the industry did not believe that women could have a \"musical background... [or] understand what you're doing because you're a female.\" A University Press of Kentucky book states that customers did not treat a woman who worked at a guitar store like she knew anything about guitars until she would use special guitar terms. Indie folk singer-songwriter/guitarist Ani di Franco states that for women, in the past, even entering a guitar store was an \"act of courage\" because it felt like a \"boys' club\". Not only do female artists feel the pressure to please their male counterparts but it is also difficult for female DJs to fit in, in a male-dominated field\nDespite funk's popularity in modern music, few people have examined the work of funk women. As cultural critic Cheryl Keyes explains in her essay \"She Was too Black for Rock and too hard for Soul: (Re)discovering the Musical Career of Betty Mabry Davis,\" most of the scholarship around funk has focused on the cultural work of men. She states that \"Betty Davis is an artist whose name has gone unheralded as a pioneer in the annals of funk and rock. Most writing on these musical genres has traditionally placed male artist like Jimi Hendrix, George Clinton (of Parliament-Funkadelic), and bassist Larry Graham as trendsetters in the shaping of a rock music sensibility\" (35). Notable funk women include Chaka Khan, Labelle, Brides of Funkenstein, Klymaxx, Mother's Finest, and Betty Davis.\n\nBelow are some of the top-earning female singers in the 2010s. Another way of selecting the most notable singers for this section would be by critical acclaim, but this is a more subjective criteria than earnings. Almost all of these singers are also songwriters, and some are also music producers:\n\nIn East Asian pop music, during the 2010s, Japanese idol girl groups have been very successful in what is the largest physical music market in the world - and second largest overall -, with 17 number-one singles just in 2017. The best-selling among all the J-pop idol girl groups, AKB48, is the best-selling act in Japan ever by number of singles sold - and third by total number of records sold - and has had as well the best-selling single in the country every year of the decade so far. Also, the best-selling album ever in the country, \"First Love\", released in 1999, is by a woman, Japanese American singer and songwriter Utada Hikaru. South Korean idol girl groups have also been very successful the 2010s, with Twice having the best-performing single of 2016 in the country, as well as having won a total of 43 awards since their debut in October 2015. Another highly successful Korean idol girl group this decade is BLACKPINK, reaching the highest place ever for a K-pop girl group on the Billboard Hot 100 as well as being the first K-pop girl group to be number-one on the Billboard Emerging Artists chart. They have also won a total of 16 awards since their debut in August 2016. Chinese idol girl groups have also recently achieved significant success, with C-pop groups like SNH48 and Rocket Girls 101, with the later selling over 1.6 million copies of their debut EP in 2018.\n\nClassic female blues was an early form of blues music popular in the 1920s. An amalgam of traditional folk blues and urban theater music, the style is also known as vaudeville blues. Classic blues songs performed by female vocalists were accompanied by pianists or small jazz ensembles, and were the first blues to be recorded. The classic female blues singers were pioneers in the record industry, as they were among the first black singers and blues artists who were recorded. They were also instrumental in popularizing the 12-bar blues throughout the US.\n\nGertrude \"Ma\" Rainey (1886–1939), known as the \"Mother of the Blues\", is credited as the first to perform the blues on stage as popular entertainment when she began incorporating blues into her act of show songs and comedy around 1902. New York-based cabaret singer Mamie Smith recorded \"Crazy Blues\" in 1920, which sold over 75,000 copies. Smith became known as \"America's First Lady of the Blues\". In 1920, the vaudeville singer Lucille Hegamin became the second black woman to record blues when she recorded \"The Jazz Me Blues\". Ethel Waters, Alberta Hunter, Mary Stafford, Katie Crippen, Edith Wilson, and Esther Bigeou, among others, made their first recordings before the end of 1921. These blues recordings were typically labeled as \"race records\" to distinguish them from records sold to white audiences. Nonetheless, the recordings of some of the classic female blues singers were purchased by white buyers as well. Marion Harris became one of the first white female singers to record the blues.\n\nThe most popular of the classic blues singers was Tennessee-born Bessie Smith (no relation to Mamie Smith), who first recorded in 1923 and became known as the \"Empress of the Blues\". She signed with Columbia and became the highest-paid black artist of the 1920s, recording over 160 songs. Other classic blues singers who recorded extensively until the end of the 1920s were Ida Cox, Clara Smith, and Sara Martin. These early blues singers were an influence on later singers such as Mahalia Jackson and Janis Joplin. These blues women's contributions to the genre included \"increased improvisation on melodic lines, unusual phrasing which altered the emphasis and impact of the lyrics, and vocal dramatics using shouts, groans, moans, and wails. The blues women thus effected changes in other types of popular singing that had spin-offs in jazz, Broadway musicals, torch songs of the 1930s and 1940s, gospel, rhythm and blues, and eventually rock and roll.\"\n\nGender discrimination and sexism occurs frequently in country music. In more recent times, a popular subgenre has developed: \"Bro-Country\", which has lyrics that sexually objectify women and frame them as assets for men's use. Some popular \"Bro-Country\" artists include Luke Bryan, Florida Georgia Line, and Blake Shelton. Gender discrimination and sexism has become more prominent in this genre over time. Dr. Eric Rasumssen, a professor in the College of Media and Communication and Texas Tech University, argues that compared to the 1990s and 2000s (decade), the country music of the 2010s discriminates more against women. Some of the ways they discriminate include, \"talking more about women’s appearance, [showing] women in tight or revealing clothing, comparing women to objects, referring to women in slang [terms] versus their real names, and portraying women as distrustful and cheaters.\"\n\n\"Bro-Country\" may be influenced by historical aspects of Southern culture which have been associated with racism and sexism. Women in country music continue to face these issues. Kacey Musgraves, a recording artist, describes her experience with sexism in country music by stating that if a label can't get your song off the ground, it's immediately blamed on your personality or the fact that you're female, or that you didn't make a radio station program director feel important.\n\nWhile woman have been underrepresented in jazz as instrumentalists, composers, songwriters and bandleaders, there have been many notable women singers. Bessie Smith sang both the blues and jazz. Lena Horne first appeared in the Cotton Club as a teenager. Ella Fitzgerald and Billie Holiday were known for their ballads during the swing era. Shirley Horn sang both jazz and blues. Nina Simone sang jazz, folk and Rhythm and blues. Etta Jones sang rhythm and blues and jazz. Anita O'Day is known for her contributions to Bebop. Betty Carter sang during the post-bop era. Mary Lou Williams was a singer and pianist during the swing and hard bop eras. Sarah Vaughan is known for her singing in the Cool jazz era. Other notable singers include Rosemary Clooney, Diane Schuur and Flora Purim. Contemporary jazz singers include Norah Jones, Diana Krall, Melody Gardot and singer-bassist Esperanza Spalding.\n\nClassical singers typically do both live performances and recordings. Live performances may be in small venues, such as churches, or large venues, such as opera halls or arts centers. Classical singers may specialize in specific types of singing, such as art song, which are songs performed with piano accompaniment, or opera, which is singing accompanied by a symphony orchestra in a staged, costumed theatrical production. Classical singers are typically categorized by their voice type, which indicates both their vocal range and in some cases also the \"color\" of their voice. Examples of voice types that indicate the range of a singer's voice include contralto, mezzo-soprano and soprano (these go from the lowest range to the highest range). Examples of voice types that indicate both the singer's range and the \"color\" of her voice type are coloratura soprano and lyric soprano. Whereas popular music singers typically use a microphone and a sound reinforcement system for their vocals, in classical music the voice must be projected into the hall naturally, a skill for which they undertake vocal training.\n\nMarian Anderson (1897–1993) was an African-American contralto of whom music critic Alan Blyth said: \"Her voice was a rich, vibrant contralto of intrinsic beauty.\" Most of her singing career was spent performing in concert and recital in major music venues and with famous orchestras throughout the United States and Europe between 1925 and 1965. Anderson became an important figure in the struggle for black artists to overcome racial prejudice in the United States during the mid-twentieth century. In 1939, the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) refused permission for Anderson to sing to an integrated audience in Constitution Hall. With the aid of First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt and her husband Franklin D. Roosevelt, Anderson performed a critically acclaimed open-air concert on Easter Sunday, 9 April 1939, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C. She sang before a crowd of more than 75,000 people and a radio audience in the millions. Anderson continued to break barriers for black artists in the United States, becoming the first black person, American or otherwise, to perform at the Metropolitan Opera in New York City on 7 January 1955.\n\nA short list of notable classical singers includes:\n\nWomen play an important role in world music, a musical category encompassing many different styles of music from around the world, including ethnic music and traditional music from Africa, the Caribbean, South America, Asia, and other regions, indigenous music, neotraditional music, and music where more than one cultural tradition intermingle (e.g., mixtures of Western pop and ethnic music). The term was popularized in the 1980s as a marketing category for non-Western traditional music.\n\nBrazilian actress, singer and dancer Carmen Miranda became known in the West as exotic supplement in Hollywood films in the 1930s, akin to dancer Josephine Baker before, and the voice of exotica Yma Sumac after her. In the 1960s Elis Regina was the most prominent female singer in the Bossa Nova of Brazilian music that influenced popular music around the world. In the 1960s and 1970s Argentinian folk singer Mercedes Sosa, South African Miriam Makeba or Greek Maria Farantouri were also recognized for their engagement against the oppressive political situation in their home states. Sosa singing \"Gracias a la vida\", Makeba's \"Pata Pata\", and Farantouri's collaboration with composer Mikis Theodorakis were musical icons of the struggle for human rights. The \"Queen of Salsa\" Celia Cruz immigrated from Cuba to the United States in 1966.\n\nWith the rising interest in the then so-called world music in the 1980s old recordings of long established artists were re-discovered for a global audience and distributed worldwide; well known in their home country –sometimes stars with legendary status– like Arabic singers Umm Kulthum, Asmahan, and Fairuz, the Algerian Raï singer Cheikha Rimitti, Asha Bhosle, most prolific playback singer for Bollywood film soundtracks, Romani Esma Redžepova, Mexican ranchera singer Chavela Vargas, and the Mahotella Queens from South Africa; or they were recorded for the first time (by Caucasian males) like Cesária Évora from Cape Verde, Stella Chiweshe from Zimbabwe and Afro-Peruvian Susana Baca.\n\nThere are many notable women world music performers, including: Ann Savoy, Bi Kidude, Brenda Fassie, Chabuca Granda, Chava Alberstein, Cleoma Breaux Falcon, Dolly Collins, Elizabeth Cotten, Frehel, Gal Costa, Genoa Keawe, Googoosh, Hazel Dickens, Jean Ritchie, Lata Mangeshkar, Lola Beltrán, Lucha Reyes, Lucilla Galeazzi (The Mammas), Lydia Mendoza, Maria Tanase, Mariam Doumbia, Nada Mamula, Ofra Haza, Oumou Sangare, Rita Marley, Rosa Passos, Roza Eskenazi, Safiye Ayla, Salamat Sadikova, Selda Bagcan, Shirley Collins, Valya Balkanska, Violeta Parra, Warda, and Zap Mama.\n\nArabic music, which has Persian origins,\nis an amalgam of the music of the Arab people in the Arabian Peninsula and the music of all the varied peoples that make up the Arab world. In Egypt during the medieval era, male professional musicians during this period were called Alateeyeh (plural), or Alatee (singular), which means \"a player upon an instrument\". However, this name applies to both vocalists as well as instrumentalists. Male professional musicians were considered disreputable and lowly, and they earned their living playing at parties. Female professional musicians in Egypt were called Awalim (pl) or Al'meh, which means a \"learned female\". These singers were often hired on the occasion of a celebration in the harem of a wealthy person. They were not with the harem, but in an elevated room that was concealed by a screen so as not to be seen by either the harem or the master of the house. The female Awalim were more highly paid than male performers and more highly regarded.\n\nIn the 9th century, using male instrumentalists was harshly criticized in a treatise, because male musicians were associated with perceived vices such as playing chess and writing love poetry. Following the invasion of Egypt, Napoleon commissioned reports on the state of Ottoman culture. The report reveals that there were guilds of male instrumentalists who played to male audiences, and \"learned female\" singer/musicians who sang and played for women audiences.\n\nIn Chinese music, music was a major activity for women during Ancient times, especially for learned women. Women performers were associated with the guqin since ancient times. The guqin is a plucked seven-string Chinese musical instrument of the zither family. It has traditionally been favored by scholars and literati as an instrument of great subtlety and refinement. A notable woman guqin player was Cai Wenji, associated with the piece \"Hujia Shiba-pai\".\n\nWomen musicians also play a key role in Chinese folk music. In southern Fujian and Taiwan, Nanyin or Nanguan music is a genre of traditional Chinese folk ballads. They are sung by a woman accompanied by a xiao flute and a pipa, as well as other traditional instruments. The music is generally sorrowful and typically deals with the topic of a love-stricken woman.\n\nThe Chinese pop (C-pop) music industry in the 1930s and 1940s was dominated by the Seven Great Singing Stars, who were the most renowned singers of China in the 1940s. Zhou Xuan, Gong Qiuxia, Yao Lee and Bai Hong emerged in the 1930s, while Bai Guang, Li Xianglan and Wu Yingyin became popular in the 1940s. After 1949, these early generations of C-pop were denounced by the Communist Party of China as Yellow Music as it saw pop music as sexually indecent (the color yellow is associated with eroticism and sex in China). Only after the end of the Cultural Revolution, by the early 1980s, could Yellow Music be performed again.\n\nNowadays, after China's extensive political and cultural changes of the past 50 years, Chinese popular music has been increasingly emulating and taking inspiration from the styles of popular music of South Korea (K-pop) and of Japan (J-pop), both of which it now closely resembles. As such, during the 2010s, several girl groups have been established based both on the Japanese model, like SNH48 (created in 2012) and its sister groups, as well as on the Korean model, like Rocket Girls, created in 2018 from the Chinese version of a Korean reality television talent competition show. These groups have achieved significant success, with the debut EP of Rocket Girls selling over 1.6 million copies. Despite this though, solo Chinese female artists continue to be much more popular overall in the country, as they have traditionally been. Some of the most recently popular solo Chinese female singers include 胡66, Ada Zhuang, Kelly Yu, 陳粒 (), Feng Timo, Bibi Zhou, 双笙, Tia Ray, 金玟岐 () and Jane Zhang.\n\nIndian classical music is the art music of the Indian subcontinent. The origins of Indian classical music can be found in the Hindu hymns. This chanting style evolved into jatis and eventually into ragas. Indian classical music has also been significantly influenced by, or syncretised with, Indian folk music. The major composers from the historical Indian classical music tradition were men. Modern women vocalists include D. K. Pattammal, M. S. Subbalakshmi, Gangubai Hangal, Hirabai Barodekar, Kesarbai Kerkar, Kishori Amonkar, Malini Rajurkar, Mogubai Kurdikar, Prabha Atre, Roshan Ara Begum and Shruti Sadolikar Katkar. One woman instrumentalist is Annapurna Devi.\n\nIn Indian folk music, lavani is a music genre popular in Maharashtra that is traditionally performed by women.\nBhangra (Punjabi: ਭੰਗੜਾ) is a form of dance-oriented folk music of Punjab. The present musical style is derived from non traditional musical accompaniment to the riffs of Punjab called by the same name. The female dance of Punjab region is known as Giddha (Punjabi: ਗਿੱਧਾ).\n\nIn the music of Bollywood (the centre of India's film industry) and other regional film industries in India, women playback singers have had a significant role, with the sisters Lata Mangeshkar and Asha Bhosle, who have mainly worked in Hindi films, often referred to as two of the best-known and most prolific playback singers in India. In 2011, Bhosle was officially acknowledged by the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" as the most recorded artist in music history.\n\nSince the Iranian revolution, Iranian female solo vocalists have been permitted to perform for female audiences. Female vocalists can perform for male audiences only as a part of a chorus. Traditionally, it has been difficult for female singers to appear publicly. Women were only allowed to perform for religious rituals, called Tazieh, and men were generally forbidden to listen to women. Before the Revolution, Iranian women could only sing in private, while working, for other women, or during women's celebrations. Qamar ol-Molouk Vaziri (1905-1959) is one of the first female masters of Persian music. Notable female musicians include Delkash (1923-2004); Simin Ghanem (born 1944); Maryam Akhondy (born 1957), founder of Barbad Ensemble; Persian classical guitarist Lily Afshar; singer Shakila, winner of Persian Academy Award; the conductor Soodabeh Salem; Afsaneh Rasaei; Pirayeh Pourafar, founder of Nava Ensemble and Lian Ensemble; and Mahsa Vahdat.\n\nThe classical singer Fatemeh Vaezi (commonly known by her stage name \"Parisa\") has given concerts accompanied by a female orchestra. After 1986 Maryam Akhondy started working with other Iranian musicians in exile. In 2000 Maryam Akhondy created the all-female a cappella group Banu which sung old folk songs that were part of women's activities and celebrations. Singer Sima Bina has taught many female students. Ghashang Kamkar teaches both male and female students. Both Ghashang and Vaezi have criticized the patriarchal power structure in Iran for its treatment of female musicians. Iranian folk-music performers include Sima Bina, Darya Dadvar, Monika Jalili, Ziba Shirazi, Zohreh Jooya, and Shushā Guppy. Iranian pop performers include Googoosh, Hayedeh, Mahasti, Leila Forouhar, Pooran, and Laleh Pourkarim. World music performers include Azam Ali and Cymin Samawatie.\n\nJapan has the largest physical music market in the world, with US$2 billion in 2014 and the second largest overall music market, with a total retail value of 2.6 billion dollars in 2014. The physical singles market is dominated by Japanese idol women artists, with 9 out of the top 10 best-selling singles in the country in 2015 belonging to either the idol girl group AKB48 or its \"sister\" and \"rival\" groups. AKB48 has had the best-selling singles of the year in the country for the past six years and the group is also the best-selling act in Japan by number of singles sold. Japanese American singer and songwriter Utada Hikaru has the best-selling album in the country, \"First Love\".\n\nThe vast majority of major musicologists and music historians have been men. Nevertheless, some women musicologists have reached the top ranks of the profession. Carolyn Abbate (born 1956) is an American musicologist who did her PhD at Princeton University. She has been described by the \"Harvard Gazette\" as \"one of the world's most accomplished and admired music historians\".\n\nSusan McClary (born 1946) is a musicologist associated with the \"New Musicology\" who incorporates feminist music criticism in her work. McClary holds a PhD from Harvard University. One of her best known works is \"Feminine Endings\" (1991), which covers musical constructions of gender and sexuality, gendered aspects of traditional music theory, gendered sexuality in musical narrative, music as a gendered discourse and issues affecting women musicians. In the book, McClary suggests that the sonata form (used in symphonies and string quartets) may be a sexist or misogynistic procedure that constructs of gender and sexual identity. McClary's \"Conventional Wisdom\" (2000) argues that the traditional musicological assumption of the existence of \"purely musical\" elements, divorced from culture and meaning, the social and the body, is a conceit used to veil the social and political imperatives of the worldview that produces the classical canon most prized by supposedly objective musicologists.\n\nOther notable women scholars include:\n\n\nEthnomusicologists study the many musics around the world that emphasize their cultural, social, material, cognitive, biological, and other dimensions or contexts instead of or in addition to its isolated sound component or any particular repertoire.\nEthnomusicology – a term coined by Jaap Kunst from the Greek words ἔθνος (\"ethnos\", \"nation\") and μουσική (\"mousike\", \"music\") – is often described as the anthropology or ethnography of music. Initially, ethnomusicology was almost exclusively oriented toward non-Western music, but now includes the study of Western music from anthropological, sociological and intercultural perspectives.\n\nNotable ethnomusicologists include:\n\n\nWhile music critics argued in the 1880s that \"women lacked the innate creativity to compose good music\" due to \"biological predisposition\", later, it was accepted that women would have a role in music education, and they became involved in this field \"to such a degree that women dominated music education during the latter half of the 19th century and well into the 20th century.\" \"Traditional accounts of the history of music education [in the US] have often neglected the contributions of women, because these texts have emphasized bands and the top leaders in hierarchical music organizations.\" When looking beyond these bandleaders and top leaders, women had many music education roles in the \"home, community, churches, public schools, and teacher-training institutions\" and \"as writers, patrons, and through their volunteer work in organizations.\"\n\nDespite the limitations imposed on women's roles in music education in the 19th century, women were accepted as kindergarten teachers, because this was deemed to be a \"private sphere\". Women also taught music privately, in girl's schools, Sunday schools, and they trained musicians in school music programs. By the turn of the 20th century, women began to be employed as music supervisors in elementary schools, teachers in normal schools and professors of music in universities. Women also became more active in professional organizations in music education, and women presented papers at conferences.\n\nA woman, Frances Clarke (1860-1958) founded the Music Supervisors National Conference in 1907. While a small number of women served as President of the Music Supervisors National Conference (and the following renamed versions of the organization over the next century) in the early 20th century, there were only two female Presidents between 1952 and 1992, which \"[p]ossibly reflects discrimination.\" After 1990, however, leadership roles for women in the organization opened up. From 1990 to 2010, there were five female Presidents of this organization. Women music educators \"outnumber men two-to-one\" in teaching general music, choir, private lessons, and keyboard instruction . More men tend to be hired as for band education, administration and jazz jobs, and more men work in colleges and universities. According to Dr. Sandra Wieland Howe, there is still a \"glass ceiling\" for women in music education careers, as there is \"stigma\" associated with women in leadership positions and \"men outnumber women as administrators.\"\n\n\nThe majority of professional orchestra conductors are male; \"The Guardian\" called conducting \"one of the last glass ceilings in the music industry\". A 2013 article stated that in France, out of 574 concerts only 17 were conducted by women and no women conducted at the National Opéra in Paris. \"Bachtrack\" reported that, in a list of the world's 150 top conductors that year, only five were women. A small number of female conductors have become top-ranked international conductors. In January 2005, Australian conductor Simone Young became the first woman to conduct the Vienna Philharmonic. In 2008 Marin Alsop, a protégé of Leonard Bernstein, became the first woman to become the music director and principal conductor of a major US orchestra when she won the top job at the Baltimore Symphony. There were \"protests from a large swathe of the Baltimore Symphony when she was first named Music Director\", but since that time, \"plaudits [have] roll[ed] in.\" In 2014, Alsop was the first woman conductor to lead the Last Night of the Proms concert–one of the most important classical music events in Britain–in its 118-year history.\n\nJeri Lynne Johnson was the first African-American woman to win an international conducting prize when she was awarded the Taki Concordia conducting fellowship in 2005. She is the founder and music director of the Black Pearl Chamber Orchestra, the first multi-ethnic professional orchestra in Philadelphia. A graduate of Wellesley College and the University of Chicago, she is a conductor, composer and pianist. From 2001-2004, she was the assistant conductor of The Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia. She has led orchestras around the world including the Colorado Symphony, Bournemouth Symphony (UK), and the Weimar Staatskapelle (Germany). Alongside prominent woman conductors Marin Alsop and JoAnn Falletta, Ms. Johnson was heralded on the NBC Today Show as one of the nation's leading female conductors.\n\nAccording to the UK's Radio 3 editor, Edwina Wolstencroft, \"The music world has been happy to have female performers ...for a long time...[;]But owning authority and power in public is another matter. That's where female conductors have had a hard time. Our society is more resistant to women being powerful in public than to women being entertaining.\" The low percentage of women conductors is not because women do not study in music school; indeed, in 2009 and 2012 almost half of the recipients of conducting doctorates were women.\n\nWomen conductors faced sexism and gender discrimination throughout the 19th century and 20th century. \"To break down this apparent employment barrier, women created their own opportunities by founding and organizing all-female orchestras\"; one example is the Fadette Women's Orchestra in Boston founded in 1888 by conductor Caroline B. Nichols. A number of other all-women orchestras were founded in the early decades of the 20th century, and women conductors led these groups.\n\nWomen conductors continue to face sexism and gender discrimination in the early decades of the 21st century. In the 2010s, several notable male conductors and musicians made sexist statements about women conductors. In 2013, \"Vasily Petrenko, the principal conductor of the Oslo Philharmonic and the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic, provoked outrage when he told a Norwegian newspaper that 'orchestras react better when they have a man in front of them.\" He also stated that \"when women have families, it becomes difficult to be as dedicated as is demanded in the business\". Bruno Mantovani, the director of the Paris Conservatoire, gave an interview in which he made sexist statements about women conductors. Mantovani raised the \"problem of maternity\" and he questioned the ability of women to withstand the physical challenges and stresses of the profession, which he claimed involve \"conducting, taking a plane, taking another plane, conducting again.\" Yuri Temirkanov, the music director of the St. Petersburg Philharmonic, made sexist statements about women conductors in a September 2013 interview, stating that \"The essence of the conductor's profession is strength. The essence of a woman is weakness.\" Finnish conductor Jorma Panula made sexist statements about women conductors in 2014; he stated that \"women [conductors are not]… getting any better – only worse\", which he called a \"purely biological question.\"\n\nNotable female conductors include:\n\nAccording to Anwen Crawford, the \"problem for women [popular music critics] is that our role in popular music was codified long ago\", which means that \"[b]ooks by living female rock critics (or jazz, hip-hop, and dance-music critics, for that matter) are scant\". Crawford notes that the \"most famous rock-music critics—Robert Christgau, Greil Marcus, Lester Bangs, Nick Kent—are all male\".\n\nSociologist Simon Frith noted that pop and rock music \"are closely associated with gender; that is, with conventions of male and female behaviour\". According to Holly Kruse, both popular music articles and academic articles about pop music are usually written from \"masculine subject positions\". As well, there are relatively few women writing in music journalism: \"By 1999, the number of female editors or senior writers at \"Rolling Stone\" hovered around...15%, [while] at \"Spin\" and \"Raygun\", [it was] roughly 20%.\" Criticism associated with gender was discussed in a 2014 \"Jezebel\" article about the struggles of women in music journalism, written by music critic Tracy Moore, previously an editor at the \"Nashville Scene\".\n\nThe American music critic Ann Powers, as a female critic and journalist for a popular, male-dominated industry, has written critiques the perceptions of sex, racial and social minorities in the music industry. She has also written about feminism. In 2006 she accepted a position as chief pop-music critic at the \"Los Angeles Times\", where she succeeded Robert Hilburn. In 2005, Powers co-wrote the book \"Piece by Piece\" with musician Tori Amos, which discusses the role of women in the modern music industry, and features information about composing, touring, performance, and the realities of the music business.\n\nAnwen Crawford, a writer for \"The Monthly\" contributed to Jessica Hopper's book of essays and profiles entitled \"The First Collection of Criticism by a Living Female Rock Critic\". Crawford's article \"explores women's long struggle for visibility and recognition in the field of rock criticism, even though we've been helping to pioneer it from the start\". Crawford states that \"[t]he record store, the guitar shop, and now social media: when it comes to popular music, these places become stages for the display of male prowess\"; \"[f]emale expertise, when it appears, is repeatedly dismissed as fraudulent. Every woman who has ever ventured an opinion on popular music could give you some variation [of this experience]... and becoming a recognized \"expert\" (a musician, a critic) will not save [women] from accusations of fakery.\"\n\nNotable popular music critics include:\n\n\"The National Arts Journalism Program (NAJP) at Columbia... completed a large study of arts journalism in America [in 2005]. They found that 'the average classical music critic is a white, 52-year-old male with a graduate degree, but twenty-six percent of all critics writing are female.'\" However, William Osborne points out that this 26% figure includes all newspapers, including low-circulation regional papers. Osborne states that the \"large US papers, which are the ones that influence public opinion, have virtually no women classical music critics.\" The only female critics from major US papers are Anne Midgette (\"New York Times\") and Wynne Delacoma (\"Chicago Sun-Times\"). Midgette was the \"first woman to cover classical music in the entire history of the paper.\" Susannah Clapp, a critic from \"The Guardian\"–a newspaper that has a female classical music critic–stated in May 2014 that she had only then realized \"what a rarity\" a female classical music critic is in journalism.\n\nNotable women classical music critics include:\n\nA 2013 \"Sound on Sound\" article stated that there are \"few women in record production and sound engineering.\" Ncube states that \"[n]inety-five percent of music producers are male, and although there are female producers achieving great things in music, they are less well-known than their male counterparts.\" \"Only three women have ever been nominated for best producer at the Brits or the Grammys\" and none won either award. \"Women who want to enter the [producing] field face a boys' club, or a guild mentality\". The UK \"Music Producers' Guild says less than 4% of its members are women\" and at the Liverpool Institute of Performing Arts, \"only 6% of the students enrolled on its sound technology course are female.\" Speaking about the 1970s, Tom Jones mentions in his recent autobiography \"We had Lynsey de Paul, a big star, though she fell out with Gordon Mills for wanting to produce her own records\" - however, she managed to do this and eventually produced male artists such as ex-Move singer Carl Wayne and Lenny Zakatek, as well as Vera Lynn and Shirley Bassey.\n\nIn Ruth Saxelby's article \"Why aren't more women becoming music producers?\", she states that \"beats aren't gendered, so why do women represent less than 5% of music producers and engineers\"? Saxelby interviewed 13 women who work as music producers to seek the potential causes of this situation. Fatima Al Qadiri from New York states that \"women are expected to be the sexualized commercial object for sale in music, and production and engineering [are fields where women are] rarely [able to be] objectified for financial gain [by the music industry]\"; as such, the industry does not use women producers or engineers. Qadiri said barriers to women in production and sound engineering include \"misogyny, sexism, unequal pay...[and] pressure to make your body (rather than your music) the central focus of your career.\" Caroline Polachek from New York states that \"an artist is not as likely to bring in a woman to produce his track as a man, not because of a bias against women per se, but because on some level it's playing safe: a killer producer, history tells us, looks like a man.\"\n\nWondaGurl from Toronto states that \"there aren't many female producer and engineers, because they find this side of the business to be mostly male-dominated and many woman do not like to have to compete with men.\" Holly Herndon from San Francisco states that \"[m]usic, despite common misconceptions, is quite conservative. The archetypes don't seem to ever really change...Every year we get a diva, a dancer...a girl next door, a fashion queen, a dainty songstress; all younger updates on a previous [year's] model. No room for new archetypes [such as women producers].\" Herndon points out that Missy Elliott \"exists outside of those narrow roles...\" Asma Maroof from Los Angeles says women are \"intimidated by such a male-driven profession.\"\n\nTokimonsta, also from Los Angeles, states that \"our culture has systematically engrained this idea that technology is more of a man's thing.\" Ikonika from London, UK, states that the music industry is \"sexist and racist\". Anna Lunoe from Sydney, Australia, states that \"more girls [should be] exposed to introductory production workshops\" and \"production mentoring programs that are... aimed at promising young female engineers\". Leila from London, UK, states that \"[t]here have been a fair few [female producers and engineers]\", from Delia Derbyshire to Tina Weymouth to Susan Day to Missy Elliot to Zavoloka. Leila suggests that to increase the number of women in music production and sound engineering, girls should be given training in computers and software coding.\n\nOne of the first women to produce, engineer, arrange and promote music on her own rock and roll music label was Cordell Jackson (1923-2004). She founded the Moon Records label in Memphis in 1956 after a few years of recording demos at Sam Phillips' Memphis Recording Service and Sun Records Studio. Unable to break into the Sun Records label's stable of male artists, she received the advice and assistance of RCA Records' Chet Atkins in forming this new label to release her music. She began releasing and promoting on the label singles she recorded in her home studio, serving as engineer, producer and arranger. The artists recorded included her and a small family of early rock and roll, rockabilly, and country music performers she recruited from several Southern states.\n\nTrina Shoemaker is a mixer, record producer and sound engineer responsible for producing/engineering and/or mixing records for bands such as Queens of the Stone Age, Sheryl Crow, Emmylou Harris, Something for Kate, Nanci Griffith and many more. In 1998 Shoemaker became the first woman to win the Grammy Award for Best Engineered Album for her work on \"The Globe Sessions\". In addition to Crow, Shoemaker went on to work with artists such as Blues Traveller, Emmylou Harris, the Indigo Girls and the Dixie Chicks. Shoemaker states that men in the industry would \"grab my ass\".\n\nGail Davies was the '...first female producer in country music, delivering a string of Top 10 hits in the '70s and '80s including \"Someone Is Looking for Someone Like You,\" \"Blue Heartache\" and \"I'll Be There (If You Ever Want Me).\" When she moved to Nashville in 1976, men \"didn't want to work for a woman\" and she was told women in the city were \"still barefoot, pregnant and [singing] in the vocal booth.\" \nWendy Waldman, who became a producer after Davies, saw that Davies had a difficult time. When Jonell Polansky arrived in Nashville in 1994, with a degree in electrical engineering and recording experience in the Bay Area, she was told \"[y]ou're a woman, and we already had one\"–a reference to Waldman. \nKK Proffitt, who is a studio \"owner and chief engineer\" states that men in Nashville do not want to have women in the recording booth. At a meeting of the Audio Engineering Society, Proffitt was told to \"shut up\" by a male producer when she raised the issue of updating studio recording technologies. Proffitt said she finds \"finds sexism rampant in the industry\".\n\nOther notable women include:\n\nWomen in music are often seen mainly in singing roles in popular music and there are relatively few women DJs or turntablists in hip hop music, house music, nu metal and other genres where DJs and turntablists participate. Indeed, all of these genres are very male-dominated. Part of this may stem from a general low percentage of women in audio technology-related jobs, such as audio engineering and production. In 2007 Mark Katz's article \"Men, Women, and Turntables: Gender and the DJ Battle,\" stated that \"very few women battle; the matter has been a topic of conversation among hip-hop DJs for years.\" In 2010 Rebekah Farrugia states \"the male-centricity of EDM culture\" contributes to \"a marginalisation of women in these [EDM] spaces.\" While turntablism and broader DJ practices should not be conflated, Katz suggests use or lack of use of the turntable broadly by women across genres and disciplines is impacted upon by what he defines as \"male technophilia.\" Historian Ruth Oldenziel concurs in her writing on engineering with this idea of socialization as a central factor in the lack of engagement with technology. She explains: \"an exclusive focus on women's supposed failure to enter the field … is insufficient for understanding how our stereotypical notions have come into being; it tends to put the burden of proof entirely on women and to blame them for their supposedly inadequate socialization, their lack of aspiration, and their want of masculine values. An equally challenging question is why and how boys have come to love things technical, how boys have historically been socialized as technophiles.\"\nLucy Green has focused on gender in relation to musical performers and creators, and specifically on educational frameworks as they relate to both. She suggests that women's alienation from \"areas that have a strong technological tendency such as DJ-ing, sound engineering and producing\" are \"not necessarily about her dislike of these instruments but relates to the interrupting effect of their dominantly masculine delineations.\" Despite this, women and girls do increasingly engage in turntable and DJ practices, individually and collectively, and \"carve out spaces for themselves in EDM and DJ Culture\". There are various projects dedicated to the promotion and support of these practices such as Female DJs London. Some artists and collectives go beyond these practices to be more gender inclusive. For example, Discwoman, a New York-based collective and booking agency, describe themselves as \"representing and showcasing cis women, trans women and genderqueer talent.\"\n\nWomen's music (also womyn's music or wimmin's music) is music by women, for women, and about women. The genre emerged as a musical expression of the second-wave feminist movement as well as the labor, civil rights, and peace movements. The movement (in the US) was started by lesbians such as Cris Williamson, Meg Christian and Margie Adam, African-American musicians (including Linda Tillery, Mary Watkins, Gwen Avery) and activists such as Bernice Johnson Reagon and her group Sweet Honey in the Rock, and peace activist Holly Near. Women's music also refers to the wider industry of women's music that goes beyond the performing artists to include studio musicians, producers, sound engineers, technicians, cover artists, distributors, promoters, and festival organizers who are also women.\n\nThe International Alliance for Women in Music (IAWM) is an international organization of women and men dedicated to fostering and encouraging the activities of women in music, particularly in the areas of musical activity, such as composing, performing, and research, in which gender discrimination is an historic and ongoing concern. The IAWM engages in efforts to increase the programming of music by female composers, to combat discrimination against female musicians, including as symphony orchestra members, and to include accounts of the contributions of women musicians in university music curricula. To end gender discrimination, the IAWM led successful boycotts of the American concerts of the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra in the 1990s; the \"VPO watch\" continues. Advocacy by the organization has contributed to the inclusion of women composers in college music history textbooks.\n\nWomen in Music (WIM-NY) is an American organization based in New York City which was founded in 1985. It aims to \"support, cultivate and recognize the talents of women\" in music. WIM-NY holds activities and events, including \"seminars, panels, and networking events.\" As well, it gives out annual Touchstone Awards to women in music. WIM-NY members include \"record label executives, artist managers, songwriters, musicians, attorneys, recording engineers, agents, publicists, studio owners, music publishers, online and traditional marketers\" from \"all genres of music and all areas of the [music] industry.\" As of 2015, the President is lawyer Neeta Ragoowansi and the Vice-President is lawyer Jennifer Newman Sharpe. As of 2015, the Board of Directors includes women from Nielsen Music, Warner Music Group, Ableton, Downtown Music Publishing and the Berklee College of Music.\n\nWomen in Music Canada Professional Association (WIMC) is an organization based in Toronto, Ontario, that was established in 2012. It is a federally registered non-profit organization that aims to \"foste[r] equality in the music industry through the support and advancement of women.\" WIMC is financially supported by the federal government, the FACTOR program, the Ontario government and Slaight Music.\n\nWomen in Music (WIM-UK) is a United Kingdom \"membership organization that celebrates women's music making across all genres of music.\" WIM-UK works to raise \"awareness of gender issues in music and support women musicians in their professional development.\" WIM-UK's website provides information on competitions and job opportunities. WIM-UK does a survey of the numbers of women composers, conductors and soloists who appear in the BBC PROMS, the \"largest classical music festival in the world.\" For the 2015 Proms, women composers made up 10% of the program, women conductors made up 4% of the 50 conductors and female instrumental soloists made up 30%.\n\nRiot grrrl is an underground feminist hardcore punk movement that originally started in the early 1990s, in Washington, D.C., and the greater Pacific Northwest, noticeably in Olympia, Washington. It is often associated with third-wave feminism, which is sometimes seen as its starting point. It has also been described as a musical genre that came out of indie rock, with the punk scene serving as an inspiration for a musical movement in which women could express themselves in the same way men had been doing for the past several years.\n\nRiot grrrl bands often address issues such as rape, domestic abuse, sexuality, racism, patriarchy, and female empowerment. Bands associated with the movement include Bikini Kill, Bratmobile, Heavens to Betsy, Excuse 17, Huggy Bear, Cake Like, Skinned Teen, Emily's Sassy Lime, Sleater-Kinney, and also queercore groups like Team Dresch. In addition to a music scene and genre, riot grrrl is a subculture involving a DIY ethic, zines, art, political action, and activism. Riot grrrls are known to hold meetings, start chapters, and support and organize women in music.\n\nThe use of the word \"girl\" was meant to indicate a time when girls are least influenced by societal pressures and therefore have the strongest self-esteem – childhood. The anger behind the movement was noted by the alternate spelling of the word as \"grrrl\", which sounds like a growl.\n\nThey partook in a new type of punk feminism that promoted the idea of do-it-yourself, exchanging manifestos and trading mixed tapes of favorite bands to get the word out. They were tired of women being erased from history or having their experiences misinterpreted and ignored by others. In, response to patriarchal violence, adultism, and heterocentrism, Riot grrrl engaged in negative emotional expressions and rhetoric similar to that of feminism and the punk aesthetic. The feminist argument that the personal is political was revisited in the image that Riot grrrl set forth, similarly to the culture of Punk that self-actualization is not to be found in external forces but rather through an individual's true self. By recognizing and reevaluating the institutional structures that affect individual experiences within social situations, an individual can gain the knowledge to better know herself and therefore know how to present herself to others so that they may know her accurately. Riot grrrl termed this movement to self-actualization, girl love – \"girls learning to love themselves, and each other, against those forces that would otherwise see them destroyed or destroy themselves\".\n\nThe accompanying slogan \"every girl is a riot grrrl\" reinforced the solidarity that women could find amongst themselves. This created an intimate aesthetic and sentimental politic well expressed in the production of zines (a shortened version of \"fanzines\"). Zines were handmade, crafted by individuals who wanted to connect directly with their readers, with simple items like scissors, glue, and tape. They called out injustices and challenged the norms that typically directed the expression of sexuality and domestic abuse, providing a space for women to exchange personal stories to which many others could relate. They challenged girls and women alike to stand up for themselves in a political atmosphere that actively sought to silence them. The shared personal stories were, at times, met with attitudes that reduced the communication to \"it’s all just girls in their bedrooms, sprawled out writing in their diaries, and then they’ll send them to each other\", while the choice to share in that way was an aesthetic one.\n\nIn the midst of this raising of awareness, riot grrrls had to address the generalizations that worked for them but that could not apply to women of color. Not all girls could be riot grrrl after all, for lack of privilege barred them from participating in such acts as writing \"SLUT\" across their stomach in an attempt to reclaim sexual agency. While this performance is an earnest one, racism had already labeled women of color as that term. As observed by Kearny, \"the gender deviance displayed by riot grrrls is a privilege to which only middle-class white girls have access.\" Another aspect of this need for inclusive discourse arose in the movement's preference for concrete knowledge and a disregard for the abstract that would foster theoretical inquiry.\n\nWomen's music festivals, which may also be called womyn's music festivals, have been held since the 1970s. Some women's music festivals are organized for lesbians. The first women's music festival was held in 1973 at Sacramento State University. In May, 1974 the first National Woman's Music Festival was held in Champaign-Urbana, Illinois, founded by University of Illinois student Kristin Lems. It celebrated its fortieth year in Middleton, Wisconsin, from 2–5 July 2015. As of 2015, it is a four-day event that includes concerts, workshops, comedy, theatre, films and writing events that \"promote and affirm the creative talents and technical skills of women\" from diverse, multicultural communities, including women with disabilities. While most attendees are women, men can attend. The Michigan Womyn's Music Festival was created in 1976, and became the largest festival in the United States.\n\nAn example of a festival that focuses on music is the Women in Music Festival held by the University of Rochester's Eastman School of Music. The festival began in 2005 as a celebration of the contributions of women to composition, performance, teaching, scholarship, and music administration. From its modest beginnings of Eastman students and faculty members performing music by women composers, the Festival has grown to include additional concerts and events throughout Rochester, NY and to host composers-in-residence, who have included Tania León (2007), Nancy Van de Vate (2008), Judith Lang Zaimont (2009), Emma Lou Diemer (2010), and Hilary Tann (2011). The festival has presented more than 291 different works by 158 composers.\n\nMany other festivals have been created throughout the United States and Canada since the mid-1970s and vary in size from a few hundred to thousands of attendees. The Los Angeles Women's Music Festival began in 2007 with over 2500 attendees. Events outside the US include the Sappho Lesbian Witch Camp, near Vancouver, British Columbia in Canada and the Sistajive Women's Music Festival in Australia. Some festivals are focused around the lesbian community, such as the Ohio Lesbian Festival, near Columbus Ohio, which was created in 1988; Christian Lesbians Out (CLOUT), which holds a gathering in early August in Washington, DC; The Old Lesbian Gathering, a festival in Minneapolis, Minnesota; and RadLesFes, an event held in the middle of November near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Feminist-oriented festivals include the Southern Womyn's Festival in Dade City, Florida; the Gulf Coast Womyn's Festival in Ovett, Missouri; Wiminfest in Albuquerque, New Mexico; Womongathering, the Festival of Womyn's Spirituality; the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival, near Hart, Michigan; and the Midwest Womyn's Festival in DeKalb, Illinois.\n\nWhile women's music festivals are centered on music, they support many other facets of lesbian and feminist culture. Some festivals are designed to provide a safe space for women's music and culture. Many festivals are held on college campuses or in remote rural locations, where attendees stay in campsites. Many festivals offer workshops on arts, crafts, fitness, and athletic events that women may not be able find in mainstream culture. In her book \"Eden Built by Eves\", Bonnie Morris describes how women's music festivals serve women throughout the stages of their lives. Since the festivals are organized by women, for women, daycare and childcare facilities are typically provided. Festivals often provide a safe space for coming of age rituals for young women, adult romance and commitment ceremonies, the expression of alternative perspectives on motherhood, and the expression of grief and loss.\n\nLilith Fair was a concert tour and travelling music festival that consisted solely of female solo artists and female-led bands. It was founded by Canadian musician Sarah McLachlan, Nettwerk Music Group's Dan Fraser and Terry McBride, and New York talent agent Marty Diamond. It took place during the summers of 1997 to 1999, and was revived in the summer of 2010.\nMcLachlan organized the festival after she became frustrated with concert promoters and radio stations that refused to feature two female musicians in a row. Bucking conventional industry wisdom, she booked a successful tour for herself and Paula Cole. At least one of their appearances together – in McLachlan's home town, on 14 September 1996 – went by the name \"Lilith Fair\" and included performances by McLachlan, Cole, Lisa Loeb and Michelle McAdorey, formerly of Crash Vegas.\n\nThe next year, McLachlan founded the Lilith Fair tour, taking \"Lilith\" from the medieval Jewish legend that Lilith was Adam's first wife. In 1997, Lilith Fair garnered a $16 million gross, making it the top-grossing of any touring festival. Among all concert tours for that year, it was the 16th highest grossing.\nThe festival received several pejorative nicknames, including \"Breast-fest\", \"Girlapalooza\", and \"Clam Jam\".\n\n\nMillar, B. 2008 \"selective hearing:gender bias in the music preferences young adults\", Psychology of music, vol. 46, no.4, pp. 429–445\n"}
{"id": "5218457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5218457", "title": "Writing style", "text": "Writing style\n\nIn literature, writing style is the manner of expressing thought in language characteristic of an individual, period, school, or nation. Thus, style is a term that may refer, at one and the same time, to both conventions that go beyond the individual writer and to singular aspects of individual writing. Beyond the essential elements of spelling, grammar, and punctuation, writing style is the choice of words, sentence structure, and paragraph structure, used to convey the meaning effectively. The former are referred to as \"rules\", \"elements\", \"essentials\", \"mechanics\", or \"handbook\"; the latter are referred to as \"style\", or \"rhetoric\". The rules are about \"what\" a writer does; style is about \"how\" the writer does it. While following the rules drawn from established English usage, a writer has great flexibility in how to express a concept. The point of good writing style is to\nnot to\nalthough these are usually evident and are what experts consider the writer’s individual style.\n\nDiction, or the choice of \"words\", is obviously a central element in every writer’s style. Although good diction is partly a matter of trial and error, of tinkering with sentences until they sound right, it is also a matter of following certain general preferences that careful readers and writers tend to share.\n\nSome methods for using diction effectively in writing:\n\nSooner or later, a writer will have the essential elements of formal \"sentence\" correctness under control and will want to find the best ways of making sentences convey meaning effectively: how to phrase statements definitely, place coordinate thoughts in coordinate structures, subordinate to sharpen the relation between main assertions and modifying elements, eliminate unnecessary words, vary sentence structure, maintain consistency of tone, and smooth the general flow of words. Seemingly minor improvements—the moving of a clause from one position to another, a shift from the passive to the active voice, even a slight change in rhythm—can make the difference between drab sentences and pointed ones.\n\nSome methods for writing effective sentences:\n\nThe most important unit of meaning in every literary work is the \"paragraph\". Although each sentence conveys a thought, a literary work is not just a sequence of, say, eighty thoughts; it is rather a development of one central thesis through certain steps. Those steps are paragraphs. Within an effective paragraph the sentences support and extend one another in various ways, making a single, usually complex, unfolding idea.\n\nApart from outright incoherence, choppiness, or long-windedness, perhaps the most common flaw in paragraph construction is rigidity of presentation. Having something to say, the writer merely says it—and goes on to do just the same in the following paragraph. As a result, the reader feels, not like a participant in the writer’s thought, but like someone receiving instructions or being shown a rapid succession of images.\n\nSome methods for writing effective paragraphs:\n\nNote how rewriting the familiar sentence, \"These are the times that try men’s souls.\" by Thomas Paine, changes the overall impact of the message.\n\nCompare the following passages, and note how the authors convey their messages in different manners, as a result of their choices.\n\n\"Hamlet\", Act II, Scene 2 (1599–1602) by William Shakespeare:\n\n\"A Tale of Two Cities\" (1859) by Charles Dickens:\n\n\"Memories of Christmas\" (1945) by Dylan Thomas:\n\n\"The Strawberry Window\" (1955) by Ray Bradbury:\n\n\"Letter from Birmingham Jail\" (1963) by Martin Luther King, Jr.:\n\nThe writer's voice is a rather vague metaphorical term by which some critics refer to distinctive features of a written work in terms of spoken utterance. The voice of a literary work is then the specific group of characteristics displayed by the narrator or poetic \"speaker\" (or, in some uses, the actual author behind them), assessed in terms of \"tone\", \"style\", or \"personality\". Distinctions between various kinds of narrative voice tend to be distinctions between kinds of \"narrator\" in terms of how they address the reader (rather than in terms of their perception of events, as in the distinct concept of \"point of view\"). Likewise in non-narrative poems, distinctions can be made between the personal voice of a private lyric and the assumed voice (the persona) of a dramatic monologue.\n\nAn author uses sentence patterns not only to make a point or tell a story, but to do it in a certain manner that amounts to a personal signature, a characteristic way of presenting reality. It is perfectly understandable that an aspiring writer could fall in love with the work of a brilliant literary figure (for example, William Faulkner or William S. Burroughs) and then try to emulate that literary voice, but when an amateur aims deliberately for the sort of mature voice found in seasoned professionals, the result is likely to be literarily pretentious and largely unreadable. In fact, this sort of literary pretentiousness is a clear mark of an amateur. A strong, distinctive, authoritative writing voice is something most fiction writers want and is something any writer can bring out in himself or herself, but oddly enough, it can’t be produced by concentrating on it, nor can it be imparted by an editor or teacher. Such an effect is achieved simply by writing often and carefully. Spending creative energy in the service of the way sentences read as prose is likely to be at the expense of the characters or story. Writers should concentrate on characters and story and let their voice take care of itself.\n\nWriting coaches, teachers, and authors of creative writing books often speak of the writer's voice as distinguished from other literary elements. However, as voice is often described vaguely, their distinction may be only superficial. In some instances, voice is defined nearly the same as style; in others, as genre, literary mode, point of view, mood, or tone.\n\n"}
