{"id": "14654027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14654027", "title": "Apple Chill", "text": "Apple Chill\n\nApple Chill is a festival in North Carolina. The event takes place in late April. Food vendors, crafters and a kids zone attract more 10,000 people to the host city. The festival began in 1972 in Chapel Hill, where the name is a Spoonerism. It ran for over 30 years until 2006 when shootings forced the town to formally disband it. The nickname \"After Chill\" was used to describe the drinking and cruising that continued late into the night after the festival was over.\n\nFrom 2007 until 2010 the festival was held at the Roxboro Motorsports Dragway in Roxboro. Since 2011 the festival is held at the Fayetteville Motor Sports Park in Fayetteville, North Carolina. In 2015, the Apple Chill is being held at Roxboro Motorsports and the event is held the first Sunday in May each year. The Apple Chill was held in 2016 at Fayetteville Motorsports parkway on Sunday, May 8th. It was originally scheduled for the first Sunday in May but was rescheduled due to the anticipation of rain on Sunday, May 1st.\n\nThe main event features drag racing as well as a parade of brightly colored motorcycles and cars. Many Jazz and R&B acts conclude the event.\n"}
{"id": "35114409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35114409", "title": "Bethenia Angelina Owens-Adair", "text": "Bethenia Angelina Owens-Adair\n\nBethenia Angelina Owens-Adair (February 8, 1840 – September 11, 1926) was an American social reformer and one of the first female physicians in Oregon.\n\nBethenia Owens was born on February 8, 1840, in Van Buren County, Missouri. She was the third of eleven children born to Tom and Sarah Damron Owens. The family traveled to the Oregon Country via the Oregon Trail in 1843 with the Jesse Applegate wagon train. The family settled in the Clatsop Plains and later moved to Roseburg in the Umpqua Valley.\n\nAt the age of 14, Owens married LeGrand Henderson Hill, one of her father's farmhands. \nTheir son George was born when Owens was 16. She and Hill moved to Yreka, California so Hill could join the California Gold Rush. She left Hill, and graduated from the Eclectic Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1874 (writing her thesis on \"Metritis\") and the University of Michigan.\n\nShe practiced medicine in Roseburg, Portland, and Clatsop County, Oregon, and in Yakima, Washington.\n\nShe married Col. John Adair, in 1884. They divorced in 1907.\n\nShe worked in the temperance movement. Owens also promoted the eugenics movement.\nIn 1909, she supported a bill to sterilize criminals, epileptics, the insane, and the feebleminded. The bill passed the Oregon legislature but the governor refused to sign it into law. Eight years later the bill became law. A similar bill became law in Washington state, in 1909, largely due to her efforts. Owens was called the \"pioneer advocate\" of the Pacific Northwest eugenic sterilization movement.\n\nShe died on September 11, 1926, in Clatsop County.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18010409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18010409", "title": "Collaborative journalism", "text": "Collaborative journalism\n\nCollaborative journalism is a mode of journalism where multiple reporters or news organizations, without affiliation to a common parent organization, report on and contribute news items to a news story together. It is practiced by both professional and amateur reporters. It is not to be mixed up with citizen journalism.\n\nCollaborative journalism involves the aggregation of information from numerous individuals or organizations into a single news story. Information is gathered through research or reporting, or added when readers examine, comment and build upon existing stories. Stories from the mainstream media are often built upon. Depending on the system of collaboration, individuals may also provide feedback or vote on whether an article is newsworthy. A single collaborative news story, therefore, may encompass multiple authors, varying articles, and ranged perspectives.\n\nProfessional and amateur reporters may work together to develop collaborative news articles, or mainstream media sites may gather amateur blog posts to complement reporting.\n\nCollaborative journalists either contribute directly to stories, sometimes through a wiki-style collaboration platform, or build upon the story externally, often through personal blogs. Collaborative journalists develop or examine a story one piece at a time. This contrasts the deadline and completion-centered nature of traditional media. A story is built upon continually, and a popular story may receive daily updates. Through combined authorship, collaborative journalism is thought by some to offer an increased independence of thought and experience unavailable to traditional media.\n\nSuccessful collaborative journalism projects require a participatory community with respect for content. Ross Mayfield, CEO of SocialText, has commented on wiki-style collaborative journalism:\n\n\"Most user-generated content isn't content, but conversation. Cultivating community is a decided practice. It boils down to the social contract you make with your readers-turned-writers. If they trust that their effort and words will be appropriated appropriately, while providing social incentives for participation, it can very well work.\"\n\nCollaborative journalism emerged through the internet in the early 2000s, and developed gradually through various online outlets. As examples, Wikinews was founded in 2003, and NewsVine in 2005.\n\nThe Panama Papers project may be the largest example of a journalistic consortium to date. It began sometime in 2015 (date?) when Bastian Obermayer, an investigative reporter with the south German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, was contacted by an anonymous source and offered the trove of 11.5 million electronic documents from Mossack Fonseca, the world’s fourth biggest offshore law firm detailing a web of secret offshore deals and loans worth billions of dollars, and details of tax avoidance designs in numerous countries. The newspaper's editors decided they could not handle the massive volume of information alone and initiated a collaborative journalistic consortium including more than 140 journalists and the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, a project of the nonprofit Center for Public Integrity.\n\nThe European Investigative Collaborations (EIC) working with \"over 60 journalists in 14 countries\" published a \"series of articles called \"Football Leaks\"—the \"largest leak in sports history\". \"Football Leaks\" \"led to the prosecution of football superstar Cristiano Ronaldo and coach Jose Mourinho.\" EIC was established in the fall of 2015 with founding members that include \"Der Spiegel\", \"El Mundo\", \"Médiapart\", the Romanian Centre for Investigative Journalism (CRJI), and \"Le Soir\".\n\n\n\"Link journalism\", a phrase coined by Scott Karp in 2008, is \"a form of collaborative journalism in which a news story's writer provides external links within the story to reporting or other sources on the web.\" These links are meant to complement, enhance, or add context to the original reporting. Jeff Jarvis, from the Graduate School of Journalism's new media program at the City University of New York, has said that link journalism creates a \"new architecture of news.\"\n\nCollaborative journalism has been implemented in several different ways. Wikinews, the \"free-content online news source,\" lets any user edit or create a news story, similar in style to Wikipedia. Several mainstream news sites have adopted a collaborative journalism approach toward news, through use of news aggregation. The Washington Post has developed a political site which links to related content from other news sites. NBC links to local newspapers, radio broadcasts, online videos, and blogs on its local television stations' sites. The sites do not separate articles written by NBC staff and links to outside sources.\nThe New York Times has introduced a \"Times Extra\" website feature which acts posts links to outside news sites. Commenting on the launch of \"Times Extra\", Marc Frons, CTO for Digital Operations at the New York Times, said:\n\n“In the past, I think many news organizations were afraid to link to other Web sites out of fear that they might be sending people to an unreliable source or that their readers would never return. But those fears were largely misplaced and we’ve seen a much more open policy when it comes to pointing readers at useful content elsewhere on the Web.\"\nOther sites exhibit collaborative journalism through aggregation. On the site NewsVine, for example, wire stories from the Associated Press complement user-generated stories and blog posts. Reddit and other news aggregation sites may also act as collaborative journalism sites, depending on where content originates.\n\nDue to the increase in collaborative journalism, several organizations have begun to offer grants or awards for these types of projects. For example, Online Journalism Awards (launched in May 2000) added a new award category for collaborations and partnerships. Clean Energy Wire offers grants for collaborative journalism projects on the topic of energy or the climate. The annual Hostwriter Prize awards money to support pitches and published collaborative projects by journalists.\n\nCollaborative journalism has received some criticism:\n"}
{"id": "5119329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5119329", "title": "Community foundation", "text": "Community foundation\n\nCommunity foundations (CFs) are instruments of civil society designed to pool donations (as opposed to private foundations who are typically endowed by an individual or a single family) into a coordinated investment and grant making facility dedicated primarily to the social improvement of a given place. Community foundations are a global phenomenon with 1700 existing around the world of which over 700 are in the United States.\n\nCommunity foundations are independent registered philanthropic institutions serving geographically defined territory, typically a city or administrative area (county, region and the like). The six main characteristics of the CFs are:\n\n\nIt is a combination of all these basic characteristics what makes true CF, although there are many other types of community organizations that have some of these characteristics.\n\nFamilies, individuals, businesses, and nonprofit groups establish funds within community foundations into which they can contribute a variety of assets to be used for charitable purposes. The people or organizations that establish the funds can then recommend that grants be distributed, in the name of the fund or anonymously, to qualified nonprofit groups and schools. In the USA the donor receives a charitable deduction in the year that gifts are made into their funds, but not all countries where community foundations currently operate provide such incentives for donors. Increasingly, community foundations are hosting giving circles as a way to further support giving in their communities.\n\nThe assets of community foundations are pooled and invested, with donors typically having a choice of investment products.\n\nThe funds established at community foundations can be non-endowed or expendable funds (i.e., the corpus of the fund can be spent in its entirety) or they can be endowed, which limit distributions to the interest earned on the assets and/or the amount granted by the foundation as long as the corpus is not spent. Endowments last in perpetuity due to the corpus never being able to be spent.\n\nThe first community foundation was set up in Cleveland in 1914 by Frederick Goff and operates now as The Cleveland Foundation. Others soon followed including the California Community Foundation and the Chicago Community Trust. The first Community Foundation in Canada, The Winnipeg Foundation, was established in Winnipeg in 1921. \n\nSince the 1980s, a number of private foundations in the United States have created initiatives to develop community foundations in various states. One of the earliest such initiatives was in Michigan and in Indiana the Lilly Endowment funded a program that has spurred development of community foundations in each of the state's 92 counties. On a smaller scale, the Grand Victoria Foundation supports development of Illinois community foundations and the Kansas Health Foundation operates a similar program in Kansas communities.\n\nThere are 191 Community Foundations in Canada, accessible to more than 90% of Canadian communities. The Winnipeg Foundation was Canada's first community foundation, established in 1921.\n\nAccording to the latest data available, from October 2014, on The Foundation Center website, the top 5 largest community foundations, by assets, were:\n\nStatistics made available by the Foundation Center enable also financial comparison of the largest community foundations with the largest corporate and private foundations and illustrate the fact that community foundations in the United States tend to be larger than corporate foundations in both assets and grants given.\n\nThere are 46 Community Foundations in the UK and UK Community Foundations (formerly the Community Foundation Network) acts as an umbrella organisation for some of them. \n\n"}
{"id": "36865726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36865726", "title": "Confession", "text": "Confession\n\nA confession is a statement – made by a person or by a group of persons – acknowledging some personal fact that the person (or the group) would ostensibly prefer to keep hidden. The term presumes that the speaker is providing information that he believes the other party is not already aware of, and is frequently associated with an admission of a moral or legal wrong:\nNot all confessions reveal wrongdoing, however. For example, a confession of love is often considered positive both by the confessor and by the recipient of the confession, and is a common theme in literature. With respect to confessions of wrongdoing, there are several specific kinds of confessions that have significance beyond the social. A legal confession involves an admission of some wrongdoing that has legal consequence, while the concept of confession in religion varies widely across various belief systems, and is usually more akin to a ritual by which the person acknowledges thoughts or actions considered sinful or morally wrong within the confines of the confessor's religion. In some religions, confession takes the form of an oral communication to another person. Socially, however, the term may refer to admissions that are neither legally nor religiously significant.\n\nConfession often benefits the one who is confessing . Paul Wilkes characterizes confession as \"a pillar of mental health\" because of its ability to relieve anxieties associated with keeping secrets.\nConfessants are more likely to confess when the expected benefits outweigh the marginal costs (when the benefit of the offense to them is high, the cost to the victim is low, and the probability of information leakage is high). People may undertake social confessions in order to relieve feelings of guilt or to seek forgiveness from a wronged party, but such confessions may also serve to create social bonds between the confessant and the confessor, and may prompt the listener to reply with confessions of their own. A person may therefore confess wrongdoing to another person as a means of creating such a social bond, or of extracting reciprocal information from the other person. A confession may be made in a self-aggrandizing manner, as a way for the confessant to claim credit for a misdeed for the purpose of eliciting a reaction to that claim.\n\nIn law, there is an exception to the hearsay rule that allows testimony concerning someone else's confession to be admitted if the statement had a great enough tendency \"to expose the declarant to civil or criminal liability\". The theory is that a reasonable person would not make such a false confession. In U.S. law, a confession must be voluntary in order to be admissible.\n\nConfessions (whether forced or otherwise) may feature in formal or informal show trials.\n\nPublic confessions play a role in struggle sessions\nand in other methods of social control and influence involving self-criticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "7745490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7745490", "title": "Cultural universal", "text": "Cultural universal\n\nA cultural universal (also called an anthropological universal or human universal), as discussed by Emile Durkheim, George Murdock, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Donald Brown and others, is an element, pattern, trait, or institution that is common to all human cultures worldwide. Taken together, the whole body of cultural universals is known as the human condition. Evolutionary psychologists hold that behaviors or traits that occur universally in all cultures are good candidates for evolutionary adaptations. Some anthropological and sociological theorists that take a cultural relativist perspective may deny the existence of cultural universals: the extent to which these universals are \"cultural\" in the narrow sense, or in fact biologically inherited behavior is an issue of \"nature versus nurture\".\n\nThe emergence of these universals dates to the Upper Paleolithic, with the first evidence of full behavioral modernity. \n\nIn his book \"Human Universals\" (1991), Donald Brown defines human universals as comprising \"those features of culture, society, language, behavior, and psyche for which there are no known exception\", providing a list of hundreds of items he suggests as universal. Among the cultural universals listed by Donald Brown are:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe observation of the same or similar behavior in different cultures does not prove that they are the results of a common underlying psychological mechanism. One possibility is that they may have been invented independently due to a common practical problem.\n\nSince any cultures that have been studied by anthropologists have had contact with at least the anthropologists that studied it, and anthropological research ethics slows the studies down so that other groups unbound by such ethics, often at least locally represented by people of the same skin color as the supposedly isolated tribe but significantly culturally globalized, reach the tribe before the anthropologists do, no truly uncontacted culture has ever been scientifically studied. This allows outside influence to be an explanation for cultural universals as well. This does not preclude multiple independent inventions of civilization and is therefore not the same thing as hyperdiffusionism, it merely means that cultural universals are not proof of innateness.\n\nAnthropology's application of one ordinary evidence standard for data that agrees with its theories of cultural universals and one extraordinary standard of evidence for data that disagree with it raises issues with population level publication bias. While it is possible with strong enough evidence for the validity of one case study that disagree to pass peer review, those that agree will statistically do so more often than those that disagree even if the level of evidence is the same. Since multiple field studies regarding the same culture are combined when statistical prevalences of behaviors are assessed, the result may cause appearances of behaviors having a supposedly universal statistical demographic even if it does not. Some anthropologists suggest that this may give an appearance of statistics such as more men than women hunting large prey being universal without actually being universal, for example that field studies in which more men than women hunted passed peer review while field studies for the same culture in which the genders were equal or inverted for hunting were not published. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10180623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10180623", "title": "Decision downloading", "text": "Decision downloading\n\nDecision downloading refers to communicating a decision to those who have not been involved in the decision-making process. \n\nThe term “decision downloading” is used to set apart those special situations in which\ndecision-makers communicate a decision that has already been made. The communicators cannot,\nfor whatever reason, keep everyone informed in real-time about the decision-making process.\n\nDecision downloaders can be classified into three groups: robust, restricted, and remedial. \n\nRobust downloaders discuss: \n\n\nRestricted downloaders discuss some of the above issues, while remedial downloaders discuss few of them.\n\nRobust decision downloaders have a different frame of reference than their less effective\ncounterparts. They view themselves more as educators than cheerleaders. They recognize that\neducation cannot be “once and done”. They know employees learn at different rates, in different\nways and from different of sources\n\n\nIn each situation, the decision-makers—either by choice or by prior agreement—do not involve\nothers in the decision-making process. Discussions leading to the decision are often deep, nuanced\nand sometimes contentious. The decisions are frequently complex, often difficult to understand, and\nsometimes controversial. Simply put, the nature of the decision-making process and the features of\nthe decision itself often make any subsequent communications about the decision extraordinarily\ndifficult. All too often, the subsequent communications are an afterthought borne out of\npsychological exhaustion from the decision-making process itself. Consequently, decision-makers\nfrequently stumble through what we call the “decision downloading process”. No wonder researchers have found that only 50% of all decisions ever get implemented and sustained.\n\nThe term was coined by Phillip G. Clampitt and M. Lee Williams in an article published in the \"MIT Sloan Management Review\", Winter 2007.\n\nThe causes of poor decision downloading include:\n\nResearchers have reported that:\n\nSince this is a relatively new concept there have not been replications of the original research.\n\n\nChecking the Organizational Pulse \n\nDecision Downloading: An Analysis of How Leaders Communicate Their Decisions \n\nEmbracing uncertainty: The executive's challenge \n\nLeaders as Strategic Communicators \n\nStrategically communicating organizational change \n"}
{"id": "623166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623166", "title": "Dihydrogen monoxide parody", "text": "Dihydrogen monoxide parody\n\nThe dihydrogen monoxide parody involves calling water by the unfamiliar chemical name \"dihydrogen monoxide\" (DHMO), or \"hydroxylic acid\" in some cases, and listing some of water's well-known effects in a particularly alarming manner, such as accelerating corrosion and causing suffocation. The parody often calls for dihydrogen monoxide to be banned, regulated, and labeled as dangerous. It illustrates how a lack of scientific literacy and an exaggerated analysis can lead to misplaced fears.\n\nThe parody gained renewed popularity in the late 1990s when a 14-year-old student, Nathan Zohner, collected anti-DHMO petitions for a science project about gullibility. The story has since been used in science education to encourage critical thinking and discussion of the scientific method.\n\nA 1983 April Fools' Day edition of the \"Durand Express\", a weekly newspaper in Durand, Michigan, reported that \"dihydrogen oxide\" had been found in the city's water pipes, and warned that it was fatal if inhaled, and could produce blistering vapors. The first appearance of the parody on the Internet was attributed by the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" to the so-called \"Coalition to Ban Dihydrogen Monoxide\", a parody organization at UC Santa Cruz following on-campus postings and newsgroup discussions in 1990.\n\nThis new version of the parody was created by Eric Lechner, Lars Norpchen, and Matthew Kaufman—housemates while attending the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1989–1990, revised by Craig Jackson in 1994, and brought to widespread public attention in 1997 when Nathan Zohner, a 14-year-old student, gathered petitions to ban \"DHMO\" as the basis of his science project, titled \"How Gullible Are We?\"\n\nJackson's original site included the following warning:\n\nA mock material safety data sheet has also been created for HO.\n\nThe water molecule has the chemical formula HO, meaning each molecule of water is composed of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. Literally, the term \"dihydrogen monoxide\" means \"two hydrogen, one oxygen\", consistent with its molecular formula: the prefix \"\" in \"dihydrogen\" means \"two\", the prefix \"\" in \"monoxide\" means \"one\", and an oxide is an oxygen atom attached to another atom in an ionic compound.\n\nUsing chemical nomenclature, various names for water are in common use within the scientific community. Some such names include \"hydrogen oxide\", as well as an alkali name of \"hydrogen hydroxide\", and several acid names such as \"hydric acid\", \"hydroxic acid\", \"hydroxyl acid\", and \"hydroxilic acid\". The term \"hydroxyl acid\" used in the original text is a non-standard name.\n\nUnder the 2005 revisions of IUPAC nomenclature of inorganic chemistry, there is no single correct name for every compound. The primary function of chemical nomenclature is to ensure that each name refers, unambiguously, to a single substance. It is considered less important to ensure that each substance should have a single unambiguous name, although the number of acceptable names is limited. \"Water\" is one acceptable name for this compound, even though it is neither a systematic nor an international name and is specific to just one phase of the compound (its liquid form). The other IUPAC recommendation is \"oxidane,\" which is used by hoax industry groups promoting DHMO as a safe industrial chemical while hinting at dangers and government conspiracies.\n\n"}
{"id": "15440710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15440710", "title": "Effects of pornography", "text": "Effects of pornography\n\nThe effects of pornography on individuals or their sexual relationships differ from person to person, and are often unclear. Pornography's association with addiction, for example, has been studied, but pornography addiction is not an officially recognized condition. While some literature reviews suggest that pornographic images and films can be addictive, insufficient evidence exists to draw conclusions. With regard to examinations of the possible effects on domestic violence, rape and child sexual abuse, several studies conclude the liberalization of pornography in society may be associated with decreased rape and other sexual violence rates, suggest no effect, or are inconclusive.\n\nWithin the field of pornography research, there are many challenges that arise due to strong opinions and feelings on the topic. Confirmation bias is prevalent due to societal taboos surrounding pornography. While many studies hypothesize about and study negative effects of pornography, few researchers explore potential benefits or positive aspects of pornography. A large percentage of studies suffer from methodological issues. In one meta-study by researchers at Middlesex University in England, over 40,000 papers and articles were submitted to the team for review and 276 or 0.69% were suitable for consideration due to the low quality of research within the field.\n\nIn \"Effects of Prolonged Consumption of Pornography\", a review of pornography research conducted for the Surgeon General of the United States in 1986, Zillmann noted that inconsistencies in the literature on pornography exist, but overall concluded that extensive viewing of pornographic material may produce some sociological effects he argued were negative, including a decreased respect for long-term, monogamous relationships, and an attenuated desire for procreation. He describes the hypothetical basis for these conclusions stating:The values expressed in pornography clash so obviously with the family concept, and they potentially undermine the traditional values that favor marriage, family, and children ... Pornographic scripts dwell on sexual engagements of parties who have just met, who are in no way attached or committed to each other, and who will part shortly, never to meet again ... Sexual gratification in pornography is not a function of emotional attachment, of kindness, of caring, and especially not of continuance of the relationship, as such continuance would translate into responsibilities, curtailments, and costs ...\n\nOther contemporary researchers disagreed, McKay & Dolf noting \"neglected in work on pornography is that adults capable of functioning in contemporary society are also quite able to distinguish the difference between reality and fantasy. That such a point requires stating is indicative of the overly simplistic model of human behaviour which is reflected in this type of work.\"\n\nThe effects as Gail Dines summarizes Zillman's 1989 study, include \"alters perceptions of sexuality; specifically, it fosters presumptions of popularity for less common sexual practices; breeds discontent with the physical appearance and the sexual performance of intimate partners; trivializes rape as a criminal offense and also trivializes sexual child abuse as a criminal offense; and promotes insensitivity toward victims of sexual violence and promotes men's beliefs that they would be capable of committing rape. In addition, habitual male consumers of common pornography appear to be at greater risk of becoming sexually callous and sexually violent toward women than occasional users.\"\n\nAvedon Carol has explained of Zillmann's term \"sexually callous\" that he meant \"a greater tolerance for homosexuality; a belief that women should be able to choose other priorities beside motherhood; less belief in marriage; a belief that women may enjoy sex and choose to participate in it for reasons other than pleasing their husbands or conceiving children - in short, the goals of most feminist groups of the time. Zillmann was unable to demonstrate any increase in misogynist or violent attitudes and desires, although he did try.\" and stated of the sponsor of the report \"Having noted the varied interpretability of Zillmann and Bryant's findings, the [USA] Surgeon-General's report said that the only reliable findings of the research that supposedly proved men were more callous towards women after looking at pornography was this: the group that saw pornography estimated more accurately the prevalence of sexual practices in society. The control group, which did not see the material, tended to underestimate grossly how common certain sexual acts were\" and commented \"But even this result may be less reliable than it appears, due to methodological problems. Zillmann and Bryant had tried to include non-students in their research, but many of them left the study group when they discovered they would be asked to look at pornography. This meant that the control group contained a different population - older, perhaps more settled married men, for example - and thus any differences in the answers the groups gave to the questions might only reflect different attitudes among the different groups, and not pornography effects at all. The study was no longer controlled. In the end, the research may only mean that older, married men are less critical of their partners than young, single psychology students, and that such young, educated men have more liberal attitudes about women's roles and homosexuality, and more realistic knowledge of sexual practices in society.\"\n\nPornography addiction is a purported behavioral addiction characterized by compulsive, repeated use of pornographic material until it causes serious negative consequences to one's physical, mental, social, and/or financial well-being. However, there is no diagnosis of pornography addiction in the current \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-5). The DSM-5 considered the diagnosis of hypersexuality-related behavioral disorders (to which porn addiction was a subset), but rejected it because \"there is insufficient peer-reviewed evidence to establish the diagnostic criteria and course descriptions needed to identify these behaviors as mental disorders.\" Instead, some psychologists suggest that any maladaptive sexual symptoms represent a manifestation of an underlying disorder, such as depression or anxiety which is simply manifesting itself sexually, or, alternatively, there is no underlying disorder and the behavior simply is not maladaptive. These psychologists do not recognize the concept of addiction, only chemical dependence, and believe the concept and diagnosis to be stigmatizing and unhelpful.\n\nTwo 2016 neurology reviews found evidence of addiction related brain changes in internet pornography users. Psychological effects of these brain changes are described as desensitization to reward, a dysfunctional anxiety response, and impulsiveness. Another 2016 review suggests that internet behaviors, including the use of pornography, be considered potentially addictive, and that problematic use of online pornography be considered an \"internet-use disorder\".\n\nA controlled study describes the relationship between given behaviors or environmental conditions and health effects in a laboratory setting in which conditions other than those under study are effectively held constant across groups of participants receiving various levels of the experimental condition(s). Since it is considered that the only functional difference between groups is the level of experimental condition(s) received, researchers can strongly infer cause-and-effect relationships from statistically significant associations between experimental condition(s) and health consequences. Thus, if executed properly, controlled studies have high levels of internal validity. However, such studies often suffer from questionable external validity due to the considerable differences between real-world environments and the experimental context, and the consequent belief that results cannot be generalized beyond that context.\n\nThe link between pornography and sexual aggression has been the subject of multiple meta-analyses. Meta-analyses conducted in the 1990s suggested to researchers that there might not be an association of any kind between pornography and rape supportive attitudes in non-experimental studies. However, a meta-analysis by Hald, Malamuth and Yuen (2010) suggests that there is a link between consumption of violent pornography and rape-supportive attitudes in certain populations of men, particularly when moderating variables are taken into consideration.\n\nA meta-analysis conducted in 2015 found that pornography \"consumption was associated with sexual aggression in the United States and internationally, among males and females, and in cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. Associations were stronger for verbal than physical sexual aggression, although both were significant. The general pattern of results suggested that violent content may be an exacerbating factor.\"\n\nIn an earlier review of this literature Ferguson and Hartley (2009) argued that \"it is time to discard the hypothesis that pornography contributes to increased sexual assault behavior\". They stated that the authors of some studies tended to highlight positive findings while deemphasizing null findings, demonstrating confirmation bias in the published literature. Ferguson and Hartley concluded that controlled studies, on balance, were not able to support links between pornography and sexual violence.\n\nAn epidemiological study describes the association between given behaviors or environmental conditions, and physical or psychological health by means of observation of real-world phenomena through statistical data. Epidemiological studies generally have high levels of external validity, insofar as they accurately describe events as they occur outside of a laboratory setting, but low levels of internal validity, since they do not strongly establish cause-and-effect relationships between the behaviors or conditions under study, and the health consequences observed.\n\nDanish criminologist Berl Kutchinsky's \"Studies on Pornography and sex crimes in Denmark\" (1970), a scientific report ordered by the Presidential Commission on Obscenity and Pornography, found that the legalizing of pornography in Denmark had not resulted in an increase of sex crimes. Since then, many other experiments have been conducted, either supporting or opposing the findings of Berl Kutchinsky, who would continue his study into the social effects of pornography until his death in 1995. His life's work was summed up in the publication \"Law, Pornography, and Crime: The Danish Experience\" (1999). Milton Diamond from the University of Hawaii found that the number of reported cases of child sex abuse dropped markedly immediately after the ban on sexually explicit materials was lifted in 1969.\n\nSome researchers claim there is a correlation between pornography and a decrease of sex crimes, including Diamond (author of a review from 2009). \"The effects of Pornography: An International Perspective\" was an epidemiological study which found that the massive growth of the pornography industry in the United States between 1975 and 1995 was accompanied by a substantial decrease in the number of sexual assaults per capita, and reported similar results for Japan. Findings of this nature have been critiqued by Robert Peters, president of Morality in Media, on the grounds that the results are better explained by factors other than the increased prevalence of pornography: \"a more plausible explanation is that if there is a decline in \"forcible rape,\" it is the result of a tremendous effort to curb rape through community and school-based programs, media coverage, aggressive law enforcement, DNA evidence, longer prison sentences, and more.\"\n\nIn 1986, a review of epidemiological studies by Neil M. Malamuth found that the quantity of pornographic material viewed by men was positively correlated with degree to which they endorsed sexual assault. Malamuth's work describes Check (1984), who found among a diverse sample of Canadian men that more exposure to pornography led to higher acceptance of rape myths, violence against women, and general sexual callousness. In another study, Briere, Corne, Runtz and Neil M. Malamuth, (1984) reported similar correlations in a sample involving college males. On the other hand, the failure to find a statistically significant correlation in another previous study led Malamuth to examine other interesting correlations, which took into account the information about sexuality the samples obtained in their childhood, and pornography emerged as the second most important source of information. Malamuth's work has been criticized by other authors, however, such as Ferguson and Hartley (2009) who argue Malamuth has exaggerated positive findings and has not always properly discussed null findings.\n\nBecause pornographic film making involves unsimulated sex, usually without condoms (barebacking), pornographic actors appear to be particularly vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nThe AIDS Healthcare Foundation tried several times to have California’s Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Occupational Safety and Health’s Appeals Board force companies in the pornography industry to treat actors and actresses as employees subject to occupational safety and health regulation; in a 2014 case brought against Treasure Island Media an administrative judge found that the company did have to comply with regulations.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Association of Teachers and Lecturers feels schoolchildren need to be educated about pornography and warned what is reasonable and what is not acceptable. The UK children's commissioner initiated a meta-study conducted by researchers at Middlesex University which concluded that pornography is linked to unrealistic attitudes about sex, beliefs that women are sex objects, more frequent thoughts about sex, and found that children and young people who view pornography tend to hold less progressive gender role attitudes. Miranda Horvath stated about this: \"But it is not possible to establish causation from correlational studies, and to say whether pornography is changing or reinforcing attitudes.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42472514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42472514", "title": "Epochalism", "text": "Epochalism\n\nEpochalism is an attitude of respect for the progressive spirit of the age and for social and technological advancement, which was contrasted by Clifford Geertz with what he termed the (essentialist) valorisation of traditional values. He viewed this distinction as a central social polarity pervading developing nations.\n\nMore broadly, the term used has been used to describe the post-Fordist, postmodern belief that the current era or epoch represents a fundamental clean break with the past; is something unique in human history; and due to this radical change, previous rules will no longer apply.\n\nEpochalism in the developing world can be seen purely as a progressive force, favouring movement toward secularisation and industrial advance, as opposed to a regressive return to the traditional values of community and Gemeinschaft. However, in practice the situation is likely to be more complicated: nationalist struggles for independence have often relied on essentialist appeals to authentic ethnic communities and cultural practices, as well as to epochalism, in order to free themselves from dependence on a Western model/Western control.\n\nThe rapid rise of the World Wide Web led many digerati to see it as an unprecedented human phenomenon, wholly divorced from all past experience. Evgeny Morozov used the term epochalism to describe the prevalent 21st-century belief that \"one is living in truly exceptional times – an intellectual fallacy I call 'epochalism. Previous technological advances, as with the age of railways or the age of broadcasting, had of course made very similar claims for themselves; and A. E. Housman a century before had denounced the mind \"which commands no outlook upon the past or the future, but believes that the fashion of the present, unlike all fashions heretofore, will endure perpetually\". \n\nLate modernity however, with its shortening of awareness of time-spans and its focus on the present, makes the short-sightedness of epochalism - with what Morozov saw as its dark fetishism of Internet-based solutions - an increasingly plausible intellectual posture.\n\n"}
{"id": "1704142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704142", "title": "Escalation of commitment", "text": "Escalation of commitment\n\nEscalation of commitment is a human behavior pattern in which an individual or group facing increasingly negative outcomes from some decision, action, or investment nevertheless continues the same behavior rather than alter course. The actor maintains behaviors that are irrational, but align with previous decisions and actions.\n\nEconomists and behavioral scientists use a related term, \"sunk-cost fallacy\", to describe the justification of increased investment of money, time, lives, etc. in a decision, based on the cumulative prior investment (\"sunk cost\") despite new evidence suggesting that the cost, beginning immediately, of continuing the decision outweighs the expected benefit.\n\nIn sociology, \"irrational escalation of commitment\" or \"commitment bias\" describe similar behaviours. The phenomenon and the sentiment underlying it are reflected in such proverbial images as \"throwing good money after bad\", \"in for a penny, in for a pound\", and \"if at first you don't succeed, try, try again\".\n\nEscalation of commitment was first described by Barry M. Staw in his 1976 paper, \"Knee deep in the big muddy: A study of escalating commitment to a chosen course of action\".\n\nResearchers, inspired by the work of Staw, conducted studies that tested factors, situations and causes of escalation of commitment. The research introduced other analyses of situations and how people approach problems and make decisions. Some of the earliest work stemmed from events in which this phenomenon had an effect and help explain the phenomenon.\n\nOver the past few decades, researchers have followed and analyzed many examples of the escalation of commitment to a situation. The heightened situations are explained in three elements. Firstly, a situation has a costly amount of resources such as time, money and people invested in the project. Next, past behavior leads up to an apex in time where the project has not met expectations or could be in a cautious state of decline. Lastly, these problems all force a decision-maker to make choices that include the options of continuing to pursue a project until completion by adding additional costs, or canceling the project altogether.\n\nResearchers have also developed an argument regarding how escalation of commitment is observed in two different categories. Many researchers believe that the need to escalate resources is linked to expectancy theory. \"According to such a viewpoint, decision makers assess the probability that additional resource allocations will lead to goal attainment, as well as the value of goal attainment (i.e., rewards minus costs), and thereby generate a subjective expected utility associated with the decision to allocate additional resources.\" The next phase of the escalation process is self-justification and rationalizing if the decision the leader made used resources well, if the resources being used were used to make positive change, and assuring themselves that the decision they chose was right. Leaders must balance costs and benefits of any problem to produce a final decision. What matters most often in assuring the leader that they made the right choice regardless of the final outcome is if their decision is what others believed in.\n\nResearch conducted on the topic has been taken from many other forms and theories of psychology. Many believe that what researchers have done thus far to explain this behavior is best analyzed and tested through situational development and resource allocation.\n\nOther research has identified circumstances that lead to the opposite of escalation of commitment, namely deescalation of commitment. This research explains the factors that influence whether escalation or deescalation of commitment is more likely to occur through the role of budgeting and mental accounting.\n\nEscalation of commitment can many times cause behavior change by means of locking into resources. One of the first examples of escalation of commitment was described by George Ball, who wrote to President Lyndon Johnson to explain to him the predictions of the war outcome:\n\nSelf-justification thought process is a part of commitment decisions of leaders and managers of a group and can therefore cause a rise in commitment levels. This attitude provides \"one explanation for why people escalate commitment to their past investments.\" Managers make decisions that reflect previous behavior. Managers tend to recall and follow information that is aligned to their behavior to create consistency for their current and future decisions. If a group member or outside party recognizes inconsistent decision making, this can alter the leadership role of the manager. Managers have external influence from society, peers, and authority, which can significantly alter a manager's perception on what factors realistically matter when making decisions.\n\nProspect theory helps to describe the natural reactions and processes involved in making a decision in a risk-taking situation. Prospect theory makes the argument for how levels of wealth, whether that is people, money, or time, affect how a decision is made. Researchers were particularly interested in how one perceives a situation based on costs and benefits. The framing to how the problem is introduced is crucial for understanding and thinking of the probability that the situation will either work in favor or against you and how to prepare for those changes. \"Whyte (1986) argued that prospect theory provides the psychological mechanism by which to explain escalating commitment to a failing course of action without the need to invoke self-justification processes. (Fiegenbaum & Thomas, 1988: 99)\" Prospect theorists believe that one's use of this process is when there is a negative downfall in the stakes that will affect the outcome of the project. To ensure they will not fail, the individual may add more resources to assure them that they will succeed. Although this theory seems realistic, researchers \"Davis and Bobko (1986) found no effect of personal responsibility on continued commitment to the previous course of action in the positive frame condition.\" Which means that escalation of commitment will be lower in the higher responsibility situation.\n\nThe attribution theory, originating from Fritz Heider, \"attempts to find causal explanations for events and human behaviors.\" This theory approaches two methods of inquiry including locus of causality and stability. Locus of causality reflects on internal characteristics of an individual, such as intelligence levels and attention seeking, with the relationship of the external space such as weather forecasts and task difficulty. Aspects of control become a significant factor in how a manager justifies a decision made. Managers will use the relationship between internal and external factors to describe why they made a decision to a single point of view. Managers may justify their actions by explaining that this was out of their personal control of the event, or they could believe that the decision could not be controlled by anyone else. Research suggests that \"the type of attribution made by an employee across these dimensions is likely to impact an employee's tendency to engage in the negative emotional activity referred to as escalation of commitment.\"\n\nIdentity is a large part of how we move through the world. Private thoughts and opinions as well as the effect of others create the social identity theory. People make connections between their use of groups and their own view of themselves, which researchers have discovered motivates people to keep their social status and to defend it whenever it is endangered.\n\nGroups engage in temporal comparisons, which means that you compare actions and behaviors at \"different points in time.\" This is a form of social identity scenario. This type of comparison can be made when a decision seems unproductive and forces team members to consider any threat to the group.\n\n\"The aggregate model's emphasis is upon the accumulation and balance of forces rather than the ordering of effects over time.\" The model is general and can provide an ideal view as to how. The effects whether positive or negative are defined by micro and macro forces. This model goes by situation rather than what researchers have defined as the norm. There is no process to follow, which makes it very useful for researchers because they can understand a situation more clearly as well as see the bigger picture of the situation.\n\nThe main drivers of the tendency to continue investing in losing propositions are project, psychological, social, and structural.\n\nProject determinants are those that refer to the original commitments and decisions made at a project's beginning. This includes general project characteristics and initial financial costs. Among them, decision risk, opportunity cost information, and information acquisition have been found to have negative relationships with escalation of commitment. Decision uncertainty, positive performance trend information, and expressed preference for initial decision have been found to have positive relationships.\n\nHigh costs of ending a project or changing its course, potential financial gain upon completion, and extensive structure can factor in to escalation of commitment, making it difficult to walk away from the project. Preventing future monetary loss, potential savings, and having clearly available alternatives can allow for avoidance of the behavior. In studies by Teger and later Ross and Staw, situations where ending an action costs more than completing it resulted in decision makers being trapped in their current, costly behaviors.\n\nPsychological determinants are those that refer to internal views on the actions and information involved in a project. This can include cognitive factors, personality, and emotions as they relate to project elements. Of these, sunk costs, time investment, decision maker experience and expertise, self-efficacy and confidence, personal responsibility for the initial decision, ego threat, and proximity to project completion have been found to have positive relationships with escalation of commitment, while anticipated regret and positive information framing have been found to have negative relationships.\n\nOptimism and belief that one has control over what will still be positive outcomes lead to continued self-justification of commitment to actions. People add to their initial personal investments in the hope they will overcome currently negative results. This was illustrated in a case study by Staw, where providing business students with manipulated responsibilities for initial decisions and their outcomes resulted in the greatest commitment to increased actions and resources when the initial decision assigned was made directly by the student with poor outcomes. In these instances, people take further risk in an attempt to avoid further problems. This is even more likely when subjects view current issues as having unstable reasoning rather than stable reasoning, or when the individual is unwilling to admit mistakes. They then believe the situation will stabilize or turn around. Confirmation bias can also lead to escalation of commitment as individuals are then less likely to recognize the negative results of their decisions. On the other hand, if the results are recognized, they can be blamed on unforeseeable events occurring during the course of the project.\n\nThe effect of sunk costs is often seen escalating commitment. When the amount of investment is greater and can not be recovered, the desire to avoid complete loss of those resources and keeping with impression management prompts continued investment over pulling out. Relatedly, as invested resources can include time, closeness to completion of a project yields similar results. More value is placed on project when they are early or late in their process due to the clarity of completion goals at those points. It's more likely that risks will be taken at these points than in a project closer to a visible midpoint.\n\nSocial determinants are those that refer to the expectations and influence of other individuals or groups on project actions. Included in these, group identity or cohesive strength has been found to have the most influence on escalation of commitment while public evaluation of decision and resistance to decision from others has little significance in relation.\n\nIndividuals present themselves cautiously to others in the environment. They don't concentrate on themselves and what they believe is accurate and competent—they are only interested in their organization appearing competent. Escalation of commitment is about decision making that usually comes in a form of a group or individual deciding a course of action. Managers have a responsibility to choose the fate of what a group of people have been working on. A manager who decides to back a team out of a project isn't concerned that the project failed, they are concerned that team members may think the manager is incompetent. Studies that tested this phenomenon included factors such as policy resistance, job insecurity (Fox & Staw 1979), and audience size (Rubin & Lang 1981). All showed a spike in commitment when these realistic factors are present. This mental and emotional response is referred to as the face-saving effect. Individuals who are responsible for others are constantly checking themselves to assure that their actions and beliefs are parallel to the expectations for their viewers. One's social identity to the public can decide your fate. For example, a team can identify a level of commitment and personal connection to an idea or project. Team members consistently use statements like \"that project is Bob's baby,\" or \"oh, we had the same idea.\" Both ends of the spectrum are crucial to how others view and analyze a situation, especially something that failed.\n\nLeaders are responsible for guiding a team through the difficult problems into a solution. Although many times, the negative aspects of commitments can discussed in more detail and importance, there are many social rewards that are positive. One example of this phenomenon is persistence. A project on the verge of failure is a manager's responsibility to revive, but with persistence, a manager can get rewarded to turning a bad project into something great. Rewards are earned for turning around a team to produce something successful. When managers stick to their goals, and get their team to produce responsibly.\n\nStructural determinants are those that refer to the cultural and environmental features and resources of the project's overall organization. The minimal research available on them indicates that agency problems most influence escalation of commitment.\n\nThere are macro-level variables that affect the organizational structure of a team and how the make decisions. Decisions are made based on individuals in a group setting with specific roles and responsibilities and effect decisions that are a product of interaction in the team. The determinant that affects escalation of commitment is institutional inertia. This phenomenon is used to describe how individual attitudes and behavior changes frequently, so therefore, a group's stature is also unpredictable and controllable. \"Organizations have very imperfect sensory systems, making them relatively impervious to changes in their environments.\"\n\nThis is one factor that plays a role in how issues are addressed. When there are a group of individuals involved in communication, decisions, and change, with the lack of consistency in the group, most of the tasks fail to complete. This phenomenon occurs in situations such as policy change, rulings and procedures.\n\nThis issue can also cause havoc for an organization when they are too attached to a policy, thought process or identity because they are not free to change. \"On occasion, a project, product, or policy can become so closely tied to the values and purposes of the organization that it becomes almost unthinkable to consider withdrawal.\" One primary example of this phenomenon is the downfall of the Pan American World Airways company, commonly known as Pan Am. Pan Am was a well known airlines and hotel with hundreds of employees. With the turn of industry, airline policies were deregulated and caused financial downfall for Pan Am. The company over time made cuts to their company to stay afloat. The company believed that their image of being an airline was more important than being a successful company that they removed all of the assets that were in fact making them the largest amount of revenue only to save the image they thought they needed to remain to be Pan Am.\n\nIn groups, it can be more difficult to attribute issues to a single, simpler determinant. While determinants are still applicable, oftentimes there are more complex factors when organizational goals and actions misalign. Groups, especially as they grow larger, can be resistant to changing course.\n\nEven if the need to change course or cease action is recognized, communication speed, policies, and business politics can be hindrances. A larger organization, especially one with a spread of subgroups, has to communicate the argument and decision to go against previous actions across the appropriate levels. If this communication does not occur in a timely manner or is blocked, the final decision may not be made and acted upon. A decision that goes against existing rules and processes may also reach resistance even with support from those within the organization. Individuals and groups that are directly employed due to a project, have financial stake in it may provide enough opposition to prevent changes from being made as well. They feel personally responsible for the parts they've worked on and can also feel that they too are being replaced or terminated. Escalation of commitment can then occur in any of these situations. External groups can play an even larger part in escalating commitment if their power is greater than that of the group taking action and they use that power to directly lead and influence.\n\nWith a larger number of decision makers included, groups have the opportunity for greater productivity than single individuals, but they also have the opportunity for greater losses and escalation. Members can eliminate some of the escalation potential if they come to a better decision earlier on in the process and avoid the need to change course dramatically. Yet they can also hold onto a larger base of support for their initial actions to the point where escalation potential is increased. In this case, groupthink assists in keeping with the original decision and pressures towards conformity rather than dividing the group with other options. Also, a group whose members are not cohesive can have decreased escalation potential due to conflicts and varying levels of inclusion in the process.\n\nOrganizations that are family businesses are especially prone to escalation of commitment due to the added level of going through the family structure in addition to the business structure, allowing for further conflicts between the two. Business reputation, customer and share loss, and financial loss become risks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50600870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50600870", "title": "Esperanto movement", "text": "Esperanto movement\n\nThe Esperanto movement, less commonly referred to as Esperantism (), is a movement to disseminate the use of the planned international language Esperanto. The movement does not aim to supplant national languages but merely to supplement them. The movement is sometimes used even for all people speaking Esperanto including their culture, which is not a correct use of the sociological term \"movement\".\n\nEsperanto has been placed in a few proposed political situations. The most popular of these is the former minor party \"Europe—Democracy—Esperanto\", which aims to establish Esperanto as the official language of the European Union. Grin's Report, published in 2005 by François Grin found that the use of English language as the lingua franca within the European Union costs billions annually and significantly benefits English-speaking countries financially. The report considered a scenario where Esperanto would be the lingua franca and found that it would have many advantages, particularly economically speaking, as well as ideologically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37781958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37781958", "title": "Feudalism in the Holy Roman Empire", "text": "Feudalism in the Holy Roman Empire\n\nFeudalism in the Holy Roman Empire was a politico-economic system of relationships between liege lords and enfeoffed vassals (or feudatories) that formed the basis of the social structure within the Holy Roman Empire during the High Middle Ages. In German the system is variously referred to \"Lehnswesen\", \"Feudalwesen\" or \"Benefizialwesen\".\n\nFeudalism in Europe emerged in the Early Middle Ages, based on Roman clientship and the Germanic social hierarchy of lords and retainers. It obliged the feudatory to render personal services to the lord. These included e. g. holding his stirrup, joining him on festive occasions and service as a cupbearer at the banquet table. Both pledged mutual loyalty: the lord to \"shelter and protect\", the vassal to \"help and advise\". Furthermore, feudal lord and vassal were bound to mutually respect one another, i.e. the lord could not, by law, beat his vassal, humiliate or lay hands on his wife or daughter.\n\nThe highest liege lord was the sovereign, the king or duke, who granted fiefs to his princes. In turn, they could award fiefs to other nobles, who wanted to be enfeoffed by them and who were often subordinate to the liege lord in the aristocratic hierarchy.\n\nA fief (also fee, feu, feud, tenure or fiefdom, , , \"feodum\" or \"beneficium\") was understood to be a thing (land, property), which its owner, the liege lord (\"Lehnsherr\"), had transferred to the hereditary ownership of the beneficiary on the basis of mutual loyalty, with the proviso that it would return to the lord under certain circumstances.\n\nEnfeoffment gave the vassal extensive, hereditary usufruct of the fief, founded and maintained on a relationship of mutual loyalty between the lord and the beneficiary. The Latin word \"beneficum\" implied, not only the actual estate or property, the fief - in Latin usually called the \"feodum\" - but also the associated legal relationship.\n\nThe owner was the so-called liege lord or feudal lord (German: Lehnsherr \"Lehnsgeber\"; Latin: \"dominus feudi\", \"senior\"), who was usually the territorial lord or reigning monarch. The beneficiary was his vassal, liegeman or feudatory (German: Vasall, \"Lehnsmann\", \"Knecht\", \"Lehenempfänger\" or \"Lehensträger\"; Latin: \"vassus\" or \"vasallus\"). Both parties swore an oath of fealty (Lehnseid) to one another. The rights conferred on the vassal were so similar to actual possession that it was described as beneficial ownership (\"dominium utile\"), whereas the rights of the lord were referred to as direct ownership (\"dominium directum\").\n\nThe fief (German: \"Lehen\" or Lehnsgut) usually comprised an estate or a complex of estates, but also specified rights of use and rights of taxation or duties.\n\nLinguistically the term \"Lehen\" is connected with the word \"leihen\", to lend or loan, and meant something like \"loaned property\" (c.f. the modern German \"Darlehen\", a loan), whilst the word \"feudum\", which some etymologists suggest comes from the Latin \"fides\" (loyalty), is more likely to be derived from the Old High German \"feo\", which meant \"Vieh\" i.e. \"cattle\", but later generally meant \"goods\" or \"property\".\n\nThe opposite of a fief was the freehold, allod or \"allodium\", which roughly corresponds to the present freehold estate.\n\nAn institution during the transition from feudal states to what is now the free ownership of property, was the \"allodifizierte Lehen\" (\"allodified fief\"), a fief in which the feudal lord gave up direct ownership - usually in return for the payment of compensation or an allodified rent (\"Allodifikationsrenten\") - but the vassal's ownership of the fief with an agreed agnatic succession - resembling a family entailed estate (\"Familienfideikommiß\") - remained in place.\n\nThere were numerous different types of feudal arrangement depending on regional tradition and the nature of feudal lordship (secular or ecclesiastical/monastic). The best-known of these were:\n\n\nThe king gave estates or appointments (\"Ämter\") to upper or crown vassals (\"Kronvasallen\"), who, in turn, passed them on to lower vassals (\"Untervasallen\"). The lower vassals would then hire the land to be cultivated by unfree farmers. There were no feudal relationships between farmers and the lower vassals.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages another structure developed in Germany, the so-called \"Heerschildordnung\", a medieval feudal hierarchy:\n\n\nInitially, only those of knightly birth were entitled to be enfeoffed, i.e. free knights who could bear arms and were in full possession of their title. Later, unfree ministeriales also rose to the knighthood. Vassalage consisted mainly of military campaigns (military service) and court duty (the presence of vassals at the court in order to offer advice). From court service, the state and imperial diets emerged. The fief was only given to the vassal to utilize; later, the vassal also became a sub-owner, but the feudal lord always retained the rights to this office. Eventually, the heritability of fiefs evolved later, but the landowner nevertheless remain the liege lord.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, out of the Roman system of patronage (or clientage) and the clan (\"Sippe\") relationships of the Migration Period (\"Völkerwanderungszeit\") (Germanic kingdoms on Roman soil), relations between rulers and their subjects developed into a prevailing consensus that was commonplace and accepted.\n\nIn Roman culture, it was common for a patron (a wealthy Roman citizen) to automatically retain his freed slaves in a dependent relationship, known as patronage. In some cases, populations of conquered areas would become clients of the general who conquered the area. This required the client to accompany his patron to war and protect him if the latter so wished, to accompany him to court as a vocal supporter and, if the patron held public office, to act as his assistant and to accompany him on representational events in public.\n\nIn return, the patron had to ensure the legal and practical support of his client in all aspects of life. A Roman citizen, a non-Roman and even entire tribes in the Roman Empire could have a patron-client relationship.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, this form of relationship was increasingly adopted in rural areas, because the Roman nomenklatura increasingly saw their vast estates (\"Latifundia\") as their refuge and also as economically important pillars, over which they sometimes even had their own jurisdiction and fortified prisons.\nClients at that time were usually bound to their patrons through the allocation of land.\n\nDuring the latter years of the period of clan society with Germanic kingdoms on Roman soil, it was common for all the land to belong to the king. Only he could distribute land to his subjects. These subjects were usually family members, warriors who had performed outstanding feats, and noblemen. This land did not become the property of the subject, but was handed over to him only \"in persona\". On the death of king or vassal, the land was de facto returned to the new king. Over time, a practice developed that the person enfeoffed with the land, together with his family, became the beneficiaries of the fief and remained permanently bound to it. Upon the death of one party, a new act of homage (\"Lehnseid\"), a formal legal ceremony, had to take place. These transitions were fluid and there were exceptions to the practice of enfeoffment.\n\nThe vassal often enfeoffed the estate, usually divided into smaller parcels of land, to other lesser vassals, who in turn had to swear fealty to him. In return for the lease of land, the king could demand loyalty and allegiance from the vassal and his sub-vassals. This means that, in the event of war, they had to provide soldiers and assistance, or if money ran short or a ransom was needed, they were expected to support the king.\n\nThe Roman patron-client relationship and the early clan-based feudal relationship in the Germanic kingdoms merged during the early Middle Ages into the feudal law, or \"Lehnsrecht\", a legal and social set of relationships, which effectively formed a pyramid with the king at the top.\n\nThe enforcement of \"Lehnsrecht\" is associated with the reduced circulation of money in the Late Antiquity and Early Medieval periods. Money could not bind a vassal to a king, only land. Unlike money, this was plentiful.\n\nEven kings (see Richard the Lionheart - compulsory allegiance) and at least in the early Middle Ages, the clergy (see Ottonian-Salian imperial church system) could be vassals of a king or another king.\n\nUnder the feudal system, various legal institutions came together during the Carolingian period that had previously existed independently. These institutions were:\n\nIt was from the combination of these institutions, especially as more and more lords achieved high social position, that the feudal system emerged.\nThe \"handgang\", which together with the oath of loyalty (\"Treueid\"), became referred to as \"homagium\" (Latin), \"homage\" (French), or \"mannschaft\" (German), became the decisive legal device until well into the 12th century. Not until the spread of the system of legal deeds was the \"handgang\" dropped from the oath of allegiance, which was better recorded in writing.\n\nCommendations were still carried out at all levels. In lower classes they were based on the manorial system (\"Grundherrschaft\"), at the high levels on feudalism (\"Lehnswesen\").\n\nThe award of fiefs often replaced the remuneration for work. This was necessary because the monetary system necessary to make regular payments was still far too underdeveloped during the early Middle Ages.\n\nAs the services of the vassal specifically included military service, under the Frankish monarchy the feudal system was for centuries the basis of the army as well as the social organization of the Holy Roman Empire. \n\nIt was not only the king who acquired vassals in this way. He was soon imitated by secular and ecclesiastical magnates. Gradually, the principle of the heritability of fiefs was established along with the admissibility of passing them on as \"Afterlehen\" to sub-vassals. The latter were also declared as heritable in 1037 by Conrad II in the \"constitutio de feudis\". So it came to pass that as early as the 12th century, all duchies and counties were awarded as fiefs.\n\nWithin each of these ecclesiastical and secular territories, however, there was a variety of types of feudalism. Not until the 13th century, did the importance of the feudal system decline, because instead of vassals (\"Vassallen\"), liegemen (\"Dienstmannen\") - well-educated men (c.f. the development of the university system) - were appointed. The kings encouraged this development, for political reasons, and so strengthened territorial lordship (\"Landesherrschaft\"), which replaced the feudal system empire-wide. This strengthening of territorial rulers had an impact that could not be reversed, so that the power of the various principalities did not reduce, unlike the situation in France and England.\n\nIn England, feudal ties were abolished as early as the Revolution of 1649, and then by an express decree by Charles II in 1660. In France they were abolished by the decisions of the National Assembly on 4 and 5 August 1789. In Germany, the dissolution of feudal associations (\"Lehnsverband\") was a long process. Legally, it was abolished \"inter alia\" by the Confederation of the Rhine acts, in the Final Recess of the Reichsdeputation and the Frankfurt Constitution of 1849. One of the last fiefs was awarded in 1835, when the ailing Count Friedrich Wilhelm von Schlitz, known as Görtz, was enfeoffed with the spring at Salzschlirf and began to excavate it again. Those fiefs still in existence in the 20th century were abolished in 1947 by an Allied Control Council edict.\n\nIn general, the vassal (\"Lehnsmann\") was granted land or free houses (\"Freihäuser\") in return for his services. He could also provide services at the lord's residence and be accommodated there. Most of these so-called \"servi non cassati\" were given a fief as soon as one became available.\n\nOfficial positions (\"Ämter\") and sovereign rights over a particular territory (feudal regalia) could be awarded as a fief. It was in this way that the House of Thurn and Taxis received its Postlehen or postal service rights. In addition, there were numerous enfeoffments of church rights, church fiefs (\"Stifte\" or \"feudal ecclesiastica\") and enfeoffments of foundations associated with an altar (\"feudum altaragli\"). Also, cash payments from the royal treasury or profits from certain duties could be awarded as a fief.\n\nFeoffment (\"constitutio feudi, infeudatio\") involved the vassal being formally seized of his fief through a commendation ceremony. In Frankish times, commendation centered around the so-called handclasping ceremony (\"Handgang\"): the vassal clasped his hands together and placed them in the hands of his lord, who then clasped his hands around those of his vassal. He thereby symbolically received the protection of his new superior. From the end of the 9th century, this act was expanded to include an oath of allegiance, which was usually sworn on a religious relic. The oath served to affirm the binding of the liegeman to his liege, but emphasized that the vassal had not lost his status as a free knight, because only the free could be bound by oath.\n\nIn the 11th century, the commendation ceremony required the liegeman to pay homage (\"homagium\" or \"Mannschaft\"), which involved the handclasping ceremony as well as a declaration of intent. The liege lord could also make a declaration, but he would often forego this. This was followed by the loyalty oath and sometimes a kiss. Since, in the Middle Ages, a binding legal act could be constituted by a symbolic action, an object was symbolically handed over in a process known as livery of seizin and could be a staff or a banner (called a \"Fahnenlehn\"). The emperor could also symbolically hand over his sceptre (in the so-called \"Zepterlehen\"). As literacy rose, a charter of feoffment was also made out as part of the act that, over time, listed the feoffed estate and benefits that the vassal was to receive in ever increasing detail.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, an entry fee was demanded for feoffment, which was often based on the fief's annual income.\n\nThe fief (benefice) that the vassal received could be owned by the lord or have been granted in fee by another. Sometimes the vassal even sold or gifted over his possessions to the lord (\"Lehnsauftragung\") and then received it back as a fief (\"oblatio feudi\"). This was usually done in the hope that the liege lord could defend his estate better in the event of a dispute in the field or at court. The lord purchased or accepted the gift because he might have the intention or hope, for example, of merging unrelated fiefdoms into a whole and thus extending his sphere of influence, for example, in terms of jurisdiction, or the appointment of clergy.\n\nFrom the 11th century, the obligations of vassals were usually described as \"auxilium et consilium\" (help and advice). \"Auxilium\" usually implied assistance in terms of military service that the vassal had to render. This could be unlimited, i.e. the vassal had to assist his lord in every conflict, or it could be limited in time, space and in the number of troops to be raised. With the advent of the mercenaries, the reliance on vassals became less important and their service increasingly took the form of administration and court duties. \"Consilium\" meant primarily the obligation to appear at imperial assemblies or \"Hoftage\". Vassals whose feudal lord was not the king took part in the councils of their liege lords. They also had to administer justice over their subjects in the name of their master.\n\nThe vassal could even be required to pay money; though perhaps not to the extent of England, where military service became a requirement for war funds and the English king used the money to pay for his mercenaries. Monetary payments were also required in other cases, such as to pay a ransom for a captive lord, for the accolade of his eldest son, for the dowry of his eldest daughter, or for a journey to the Holy Land.\n\nThe feudal lord could also demand recompense (\"Lehnserneuerung\" or \"renovatio investiturae\") from his vassals if they lost their fief or upon changes of lord - changes of ruler at any level, local lord, prince or king (known as \"Herrenfall, Hauptfall, Thronfall\") - as well as changes of vassal (known as \"Lehnsfall, Vasallenfall\" or \"Mannfall, Nebenfall\"). The latter had to submit a written application (\"Lehnsmutung\") within a year and a day (actually 1 year, 6 weeks, 3 days) and ask for the renewal of his investiture, but this term could be extended by a decree from the lord (\"Lehnsindult\").\n\nDepending on local law, the vassal might be liable, apart from the fee, for the renewal of the enfeoffment (called the \"Schreibschilling\" or \"Lehnstaxe\"), to pay a special tax (the \"Laudemium, Lehnsgeld, Lehnsware\" or \"Handlohn\"). Finally, in the event of a felony by the vassal, the lord could confiscate the fief under the so-called \"Privationsklage\" action or step in to prevent the deterioration of the estate, if necessary, by legal means. He could also assert his claim to ownership at any time against any unauthorized third parties.\n\nThe duties of the lords were less precisely defined, however, they were largely discharged on the handover of the fief. The vassal always had a claim to loyalty from his lord (\"Lehnsprotektion\") and a breach of that by the lord meant the loss of his sovereignty over his vassal. The vassal had the \"right of use\" of the fief (the object of enfeoffment or \"Lehnsobjekt\"). The lord also had to represent his vassals in court.\n\nOriginally, a lord-vassal tie (\"Lehnsbindung\") was a lifelong, faithful relationship that could end only on death. It was also inconceivable that someone could be the vassal of more than one lord. In fact, multiple vassalage soon emerged and loosened the duty of loyalty for the liegeman (\"Lehnsmann\") considerably. Also, the opportunity to inherit a fief diminished the ability of the lord to intervene and loosened the personal loyalty of liegemen. Over time, the importance of fiefdoms increased more and more, whilst the duty of loyalty faded increasingly into the background. In the end, a fief was simply an estate for which the heir had to perform a certain ceremony.\n\nIn summary, the feudal system was based on two main components - the personal and the material elements.\n\nPersonal element:\nThe lord and vassal committed themselves to mutual loyalty. The visible expression of this commitment was the act of the vassal placing his hands in those of his lord (\"handgang\" - comparable with today's handshake, except that the \"handgang\" symbolized a hierarchical relation).\n\nMaterial element:\nBased on the pledge of loyalty between them, the lord made land available to the vassal. The vassal was obliged, in return, to render various services and taxes.\n\nAn echo of the old feudal system in Europe is found in family names such as Lehner, Lechner, Lehmann, Lehle, Horrigan and Lenherr as well as in numerous house and even place names, that even today have the term \"Lehen\" in the names (see a list at Lehen (disambiguation)).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5358303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5358303", "title": "Gender apartheid", "text": "Gender apartheid\n\nGender apartheid (also called sexual apartheid or sex apartheid) is the economic and social sexual discrimination against individuals because of their gender or sex. It is a system enforced by using either physical or legal practices to relegate individuals to subordinate positions. Feminist psychologist Phyllis Chesler defines the phenomenon as \"practices which condemn girls and women to a separate and subordinate sub-existence and which turn boys and men into the permanent guardians of their female relatives' chastity\". Instances of gender apartheid lead not only to the social and economic disempowerment of individuals, but can also result in severe physical harm.\n\nThe term \"gender apartheid\" stems from South Africa's racial apartheid that instituted a system of white supremacy () and separated the country's majority black inhabitants from whites. Afrikaans for \"apartness\" or \"separateness\", the use of the term \"apartheid\" to refer to gender reflects a human rights violation that entails both separation and oppression. In defining apartheid, Dr. Anthony Löwstedt wrote:\nThe concept of separateness in itself does not necessarily imply that any group is or will be favored over any other... The distinctive characteristic of apartheid and of other kinds of oppressive segregation is that political, economic, social, and even geographic conditions are created consciously and systematically in order to forcibly separate groups, invariably to the benefit—at least the short-term benefit—of at least one of the groups, but never, or only accidentally, to the benefit of all of them.\n\nIt is important to note that gender apartheid is a universal phenomenon and therefore is not confined to South Africa. While reports of gender apartheid have most frequently arisen in the context of Islamic culture, it is prevalent around the world. Some human rights advocates have argued for sanctions against states practicing gender apartheid, similar to those imposed on South Africa under apartheid.\n\nInstances of gender apartheid have been found institutionalized through religious and cultural practices. For example, aspects of the treatment of women under fundamentalist interpretations of Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Hinduism, Sikhism and some varieties of Buddhism have been described as gender apartheid. Use of faith, often through strict interpretations of religious code, to justify gender apartheid is highly controversial.\n\nThe terms gender apartheid and sexual apartheid have also been used to describe differential treatment of women in institutions such as the Church of England and the Roman Catholic Church. Presbyterian minister and author Patricia Budd Kepler points towards women's institutionalized struggle for acceptance into clergy and religious leadership roles as an example of gender apartheid. Specifically, Kepler criticizes the traditional conceptions of masculinity and femininity that limit female authority in the church, insisting instead that women's entrance into the ministry does not disrupt divine order. Similarly, author Courtney W. Howland describes the patriarchal family structure of evangelical Christian churches in America as maintaining gender apartheid.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has been identified as perpetuating gender apartheid due to the Vatican's listing of \"the attempted sacred ordination of a woman\" as a \"delicta graviora\" – in other words, a crime of equal standing to sexual molestation of minors, and \"acquisition, possession or distribution of [child] pornography by a cleric\". In light of such, some have characterized the Catholic Church as endorsing patriarchy and subsequently alienating women from leadership roles within religion.\n\nWhile Islam has sometimes been lauded for a historically more progressive portrayal of women, others criticize the religion for the discriminatory nature of its personal status laws and criminal code as applied to women. Islam's patriarchal values remain one of its most contested principles, although it is important to note that these values vary in the context of different countries. Generally, however, male and female rights differ considerably according to Islamic personal status laws. For instance, men are permitted to engage in polygamy while women cannot, and female inheritances are half of their male sibling's. Furthermore, conviction by Islamic criminal code further discriminates against women, as it relies heavily on witness testimony. Female testimonies alone are considered insufficient to convict a murderer, requiring a male testimony for validation.\n\nWomen's rights activist Mahnaz Afkhami writes that the fundamentalist world view \"singles out women's status and her relations to society as the supreme test of the authenticity of the Islamic order.\" This is symbolized by the institutions of \"Purdah\" (physical separation of the sexes) and \"Awrah\" (concealing the body with clothing). As in much of the world, institutions suppressing women were becoming less powerful until the resurgence of Islamic fundamentalism at the end of the 20th century. Walid Phares writes that Marxism in the Soviet Union and China, as well as \"secular anticlericalism\" in Turkey forced women to \"integrate themselves into an antireligious society\" resulting in a backlash of \"gender apartheid\" by Islamic fundamentalists. He notes that other religions also have \"witnessed similar historical struggles.\"\n\nHaredi Judaism, also known as ultra-Orthodox Judaism, has been criticized for instituting gender apartheid policies and beliefs. Comprising a small but steadily growing minority within the Jewish culture, Haredi Judaism is distinguished as a community of scholars, with a significantly larger proportion of men continuing their education in yeshiva than women in seminary. Followers of ultra-Orthodox Judaism are also distinct for their clothing and general appearance: unshaven beards, long dark overcoats, and wide-brimmed hats for men; and modestly covered women. Accusations of gender apartheid point towards the culture’s repressive nature and sex segregation, as well as the demonization of females as sexual temptation. Additionally, public images of women have been defaced in ultra-Orthodox Jewish communities, and young Jewish girls have been spat on and called prostitutes for wearing clothing deemed immodest. Reports suggest that it is largely Haredi fundamentalists who are responsible for acts of gender apartheid, and that the Haredi community as a whole does not condone such practices.\n\nActions of fundamentalist ultra-Orthodox Jews in Israel have been referred to as gender apartheid. While women customarily sit in the back of buses in parts of Israel, no formal edict enforces such. However, one incident arose in December 2011 in which an ultra-Orthodox man asked a woman seated in the front of the bus to move towards the back; her subsequent refusal spurred a larger gathering. Police intervention ultimately broke apart the confrontation. Regarding the event, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expressed his support for public spaces for all and unity within the community. There have also been reports of ultra-Orthodox Jews spitting at women, attacking television crews, and protesting with signs instructing women how to dress and to avoid walking by synagogues.\n\nCertain Tibetan Buddhist schools require women to process into seminaries and other forms of worship after the men. They are also segregated from men during these events and many other occasions; for example, informal gatherings and dinners, especially when these take place in the presence of a senior monk. There is also anecdotal evidence of men and women - including husbands and wives - being forced to take separate transportation to some Buddhist events and even being required to stay in separate hotel rooms when they are attending them.\n\nAlthough the Qur'an does not explicitly require women to cover their faces or heads, the practice of forced veiling is perceived in some areas as a form of gender apartheid. It is important to note that the practice of forced veiling is not due to any universal Islamic code; rather, the practice has risen under different contextual circumstances. The dress code imposed in Afghanistan while under Taliban rule and schools that require girls to wear a headscarf have been cited as examples of forced veiling. These policies of forced veiling have been criticized as coercive instruments for gender segregation that deny female autonomy and agency. However, objections to this argument suggest that forced veiling does not constitute gender apartheid and that social constructions of the veil have wrongfully made it a symbol of gender inequality.\n\nMany countries in the world exhibit acts of gender apartheid, though they are more commonly evidenced in the developing world. The following are nations that have purportedly practiced some instance of gender apartheid.\n\nAfghanistan, under Taliban religious leadership, has been characterized by feminist groups and others as a system of gender apartheid in which women were segregated from men in public and could not enjoy legal freedoms or equal access to employment or education. Rising to power in late 1996, the Taliban accrued international attention for its treatment of women, enacting policies that limited women’s freedom of movement, employment, and education rights. Under Taliban rule, women were at risk for detainment and physical abuse if found guilty for violating the imposed dress code, with violations that included: exposure of the hands, wrist, feet, or face; not wearing a burqa; and wearing items perceived to be offensive, e.g. white socks/shoes, stylish clothing, shoes that make noise while walking.\n\nIn 2006, Marina Mahathir, the daughter of Malaysia's former Prime Minister and an active campaigner for women's rights, described the status of Muslim women in Malaysia as similar to that of Black South Africans under apartheid. Mahathir's remarks were made in response to a new Islamic law that enables men to divorce or take up to four wives. The law also granted husbands more authority over their wives' property. Conservative groups such as the Malaysian Muslim Professionals Forum criticized her comments for insulting Sharia and undermining the prominent role of women in Malaysia compared to other Muslim and east Asian countries.\n\nPakistani society has been described as employing gender apartheid due to the subordinate status of women in political, economic, and social spheres. For instance, the Citizens Act of 1951 prevents Pakistani women with foreign husbands from obtaining for their spouses Pakistani citizenship. The gender disparities in economic activity, education and literacy, and societal sex ratio have also been cited as evidence of systematic gender apartheid in Pakistan.\n\nSome studies suggest that gender roles in Pakistani society are transmitted via primary and secondary school textbooks, by neglecting to include important female figures in history and social studies. Gender apartheid is therefore institutionalized through text and images in which women are appropriated to domestic roles and rarely portrayed working outside of the house. Moreover, in terms of personality and disposition, males and females are characterized as distinct opposites: while women are “vain, silly and stupid,” men are “intelligent, brave and strong.” Consequently, socialized gender roles reinforce and perpetuate gender apartheid.\n\nEfforts to stop discriminatory treatment of women have been made through policies such as the Women's Protection Bill, enacted by Pakistan’s National Assembly in December 2006. The act amended the Hudood Ordinance that dictated punishment for various crimes such as rape, theft, and adultery. Previously, the Hudood Ordinances were a subject of controversy for their misogynistic nature and purportedly encouraging violent and legal subjugation of women. For instance, female rape victims could be convicted on the basis that their rape amounted to adultery and fornication.\n\nSaudi Arabia's practices with regard to women have been referred to consistently as gender apartheid. Acts of gender apartheid purportedly manifest in many different forms, such as the ban on women from physical education in school and from watching sporting events at stadiums. Women were formerly prohibited from driving and still require male permission in order to travel. The Commission for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice oversees the enforcement of sex segregation in Saudi Arabian civil life; any unlawful mixing between the sexes is punished harshly. The Saudi education system also enforces strict gender roles by teaching that women's subservience is innate to womanhood. More recently, a new technology system has been introduced that alerts male guardians by text when their female dependent has left the country. In general, women in Saudi Arabia possess the same legal rights as minors and cannot make major decisions, e.g. in education, work, and healthcare, without the consent of a male relative.\n\nMarginalization of women in Saudi society has generated great pressure both domestically and internationally. Recent advancements have been seen in light of Arab Spring and the 2011–13 Saudi Arabian protests, such as King Abdullah granting women's suffrage in the 2015 municipal elections. Additionally, Saudi Arabia has also lifted some restrictions on the use of motorbikes and bicycles by women; women may now bike in certain spaces if properly attired in the abaya and accompanied by a male guardian.\n\nFollowing 11-year-old Katrina Yeaw's denial from the Boy Scouts of America on the basis of her gender, the National Organization for Women filed a lawsuit with legal representation from attorney Gloria Allred. In the case \"Yeaw v. Boy Scouts of America\", Allred labeled the Boy Scouts of America's refusal to admit girls as gender apartheid. The lawsuit ultimately failed, though Allred brought the case before the Third District Court of Appeals in Sacramento and eventually the California Supreme Court, which upheld the Boy Scouts' decision.\n\nScholars and activists alike have criticized international law for its lack of initiative and public action in recognizing particular acts as gender apartheid and acting to prevent it. According to these critics, cultural relativism has too often been a source of defense for gender apartheid, by safeguarding women’s oppression from change and subversion. The rhetoric surrounding gender apartheid has also been viewed negatively as a form of neocolonialism that perpetuates stereotypes of Islam. The United Nation's response to the Taliban's human rights violations against women in Afghanistan has in particular been the subject of much controversy. Some argue that the UN \"not only failed to prevent and, later, to become an effective opponent of the gender policies of the Taliban regime, but that it actually incorporated discrimination against women in its humanitarian assistance and in the recruitment of local staff.\"\n\nIn 1997, the Feminist Majority Foundation (FMF) launched the Campaign to Stop Gender Apartheid in Afghanistan, calling attention to the human rights abuses against women under the Taliban. It has been criticized for promoting \"imperial feminism\" and for possessing an exploitative tone that denounces Islam as evil. Following the fall of the Taliban regime, the campaign has since expanded and been renamed to become the Campaign for Afghan Women and Girls. It is chaired by Mavis Leno and aims to continue raising awareness of gender inequality in Afghanistan.\n\nThe \"No Women, No Play\" campaign was launched in 2009 by the Hadi Al Mutif Program for Human Rights at the Institute for Gulf Affairs to address women's status in Saudi Arabia. The campaign aims to ban Saudi Arabia from the Olympics until it allows Saudi Arabian women to take part in sports. In its charter, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) declares that participation in sporting activities is a human right. Besides the \"No Women, No Play\" campaign, other organizations such as Human Rights Watch have drawn public attention to Saudi Arabia for its sporting restrictions against women.\n\nIn regards to gender apartheid in Roman Catholicism specifically, the Roman Catholic Womenpriests (RCWP) formed to defy the church position banning the ordination of women. The group has since accrued further intention with the release of the 2011 documentary \"Pink Smoke over the Vatican\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13305402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305402", "title": "Global brain", "text": "Global brain\n\nThe global brain is a neuroscience-inspired and futurological vision of the planetary information and communications technology network that interconnects all humans and their technological artifacts. As this network stores ever more information, takes over ever more functions of coordination and communication from traditional organizations, and becomes increasingly intelligent, it increasingly plays the role of a brain for the planet Earth.\n\nProponents of the global brain hypothesis claim that the Internet increasingly ties its users together into a single information processing system that functions as part of the collective nervous system of the planet. The intelligence of this network is collective or distributed: it is not centralized or localized in any particular individual, organization or computer system. Therefore, no one can command or control it. Rather, it self-organizes or emerges from the dynamic networks of interactions between its components. This is a property typical of complex adaptive systems.\n\nThe World-wide web in particular resembles the organization of a brain with its webpages (playing a role similar to neurons) connected by hyperlinks (playing a role similar to synapses), together forming an associative network along which information propagates. This analogy becomes stronger with the rise of social media, such as Facebook, where links between personal pages represent relationships in a social network along which information propagates from person to person.\nSuch propagation is similar to the spreading activation that neural networks in the brain use to process information in a parallel, distributed manner.\n\nAlthough some of the underlying ideas were already expressed by Nikola Tesla in the late 19th century and were written about by many others before him, the term “global brain” was coined in 1982 by Peter Russell in his book \"The Global Brain\". How the Internet might be developed to achieve this was set out in 1986. The first peer-reviewed article on the subject was published by Gottfried Mayer-Kress in 1995, while the first algorithms that could turn the world-wide web into a collectively intelligent network were proposed by Francis Heylighen and Johan Bollen in 1996.\n\nReviewing the strands of intellectual history that contributed to the global brain hypothesis, Francis Heylighen distinguishes four perspectives: \"“organicism”\", \"“encyclopedism”\", \"“emergentism”\" and \"“evolutionary cybernetics”\". He asserts that these developed in relative independence but now are converging in his own scientific re-formulation.\n\nIn the 19th century, the sociologist Herbert Spencer saw society as a social organism and reflected about its need for a nervous system. Entomologist William Wheeler developed the concept of the ant colony as a spatially extended organism, and in the 1930s he coined the term superorganism to describe such an entity. This concept was later adopted by thinkers such as Gregory Stock in his book Metaman and Joel de Rosnay to describe planetary society as a superorganism.\n\nThe mental aspects of such an organic system at the planetary level were perhaps first broadly elaborated by palaeontologist and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. In 1945, he described a coming “planetisation” of humanity, which he saw as the next phase of accelerating human “socialisation”. Teilhard described both socialization and planetization as irreversible, irresistible processes of \"macrobiological development\" culminating in the emergence of a noosphere, or global mind (see Emergentism below).\n\nThe more recent living systems theory describes both organisms and social systems in terms of the \"critical subsystems\" (\"organs\") they need to contain in order to survive, such as an internal transport system, a resource reserve, and a decision-making system. This theory has inspired several thinkers, including Peter Russell and Francis Heylighen to define the global brain as the network of information processing subsystems for the planetary social system.\n\nIn the perspective of encyclopedism, the emphasis is on developing a universal knowledge network. The first systematic attempt to create such an integrated system of the world's knowledge was the 18th century \"Encyclopédie\" of Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert. However, by the end of the 19th century, the amount of knowledge had become too large to be published in a single synthetic volume. To tackle this problem, Paul Otlet founded the science of documentation, now called information science. In the 1930s he envisaged a World Wide Web-like system of associations between documents and telecommunication links that would make all the world's knowledge available immediately to anybody. H. G. Wells proposed a similar vision of a collaboratively developed world encyclopedia that would be constantly updated by a global university-like institution. He called this a World Brain, as it would function as a continuously updated memory for the planet, although the image of humanity acting informally as a more organic global brain is a recurring motif in other of his works.\n\nTim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, too, was inspired by the free-associative possibilities of the brain for his invention. The brain can link different kinds of information without any apparent link otherwise; Berners-Lee thought that computers could become much more powerful if they could imitate this functioning, i.e. make links between any arbitrary piece of information. The most powerful implementation of encyclopedism to date is Wikipedia, which integrates the associative powers of the world-wide-web with the collective intelligence of its millions of contributors, approaching the ideal of a global memory. The Semantic web, also first proposed by Berners-Lee, is a system of protocols to make the pieces of knowledge and their links readable by machines, so that they could be used to make automatic inferences, thus providing this brain-like network with some capacity for autonomous \"thinking\" or reflection.\n\nThis approach focuses on the emergent aspects of the evolution and development of complexity, including the spiritual, psychological, and moral-ethical aspects of the global brain, and is at present the most speculative approach. The global brain is here seen as a natural and emergent process of planetary evolutionary development. Here again Pierre Teilhard de Chardin attempted a synthesis of science, social values, and religion in his The Phenomenon of Man, which argues that the \"telos\" (drive, purpose) of universal evolutionary process is the development of greater levels of both complexity and consciousness. Teilhard proposed that if life persists then planetization, as a biological process producing a global brain, would necessarily also produce a global mind, a new level of planetary consciousness and a technologically supported network of thoughts which he called the \"noosphere\". Teilhard's proposed technological layer for the noosphere can be interpreted as an early anticipation of the Internet and the Web.\n\nPhysicist and philosopher Peter Russell elaborates a similar view, and stresses the importance of personal spiritual growth, in order to build and to achieve synergy with the spiritual dimension of the emerging superorganism. This approach is most popular in New Age circles, which emphasize growth in consciousness rather than scientific modelling or the implementation of technological and social systems.\n\nSystems theorists and cyberneticists commonly describe the emergence of a higher order system in evolutionary development as a “metasystem transition” (a concept introduced by Valentin Turchin) or a “major evolutionary transition”. Such a metasystem consists of a group of subsystems that work together in a coordinated, goal-directed manner. It is as such much more powerful and intelligent than its constituent systems. Francis Heylighen has argued that the global brain is an emerging metasystem with respect to the level of individual human intelligence, and investigated the specific evolutionary mechanisms that promote this transition\n\nIn this scenario, the Internet fulfils the role of the network of “nerves” that interconnect the subsystems and thus coordinates their activity. The cybernetic approach makes it possible to develop mathematical models and simulations of the processes of self-organization through which such coordination and collective intelligence emerges.\n\nIn 1994 Kevin Kelly, in his popular book \"\", posited the emergence of a \"hive mind\" from a discussion of cybernetics and evolutionary biology.\n\nIn 1996, Francis Heylighen and Ben Goertzel founded the Global Brain group, a discussion forum grouping most of the researchers that had been working on the subject of the global brain to further investigate this phenomenon. The group organized the first international conference on the topic in 2001 at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.\n\nAfter a period of relative neglect, the Global Brain idea has recently seen a resurgence in interest, in part due to talks given on the topic by Tim O'Reilly, the Internet forecaster who popularized the term Web 2.0, and Yuri Milner, the social media investor. In January 2012, the Global Brain Institute (GBI) was founded at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel to develop a mathematical theory of the “brainlike” propagation of information across the Internet. In the same year, Thomas W. Malone and collaborators from the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence have started to explore how the global brain could be “programmed” to work more effectively, using mechanisms of collective intelligence. The complexity scientist Dirk Helbing and his NervousNet group have recently started developing a \"Planetary Nervous System\", which includes a \"Global Participatory Platform\", as part of the large-scale FuturICT project, thus preparing some of the groundwork for a Global Brain.\n\nIn July 2017 Elon Musk founded the company Neuralink, which aims to create a Neural Lace, which is a concept invented by the novelist Iain M. Banks and basically refers to a machine interface woven into the brain, to allow the user to access all available human information. A core driver behind this business idea is Mr Musk’s argument, that human beings soon have to embrace brain implants to stay relevant in a world which, he believes, will soon be dominated by artificial intelligence. The firm raised $27m from 12 Investors in 2017 .\n\nA common criticism of the idea that humanity would become directed by a global brain is that this would reduce individual diversity and freedom, and lead to mass surveillance. This criticism is inspired by totalitarian forms of government, as exemplified by George Orwell's character of \"Big Brother\". It is also inspired by the analogy between collective intelligence or swarm intelligence and insect societies, such as beehives and ant colonies, in which individuals are essentially interchangeable. In a more extreme view, the global brain has been compared with the Borg, the race of collectively thinking cyborgs conceived by the Star Trek science fiction franchise.\n\nGlobal brain theorists reply that the emergence of distributed intelligence would lead to the exact opposite of this vision. The reason is that effective collective intelligence requires diversity of opinion, decentralization and individual independence, as demonstrated by James Surowiecki in his book The Wisdom of Crowds. Moreover, a more distributed form of decision-making would decrease the power of governments, corporations or political leaders, thus increasing democratic participation and reducing the dangers of totalitarian control.\n\n\n\n\nFor more references, check the GBI bibliography:\n\n"}
{"id": "43131303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43131303", "title": "Historical dynamics", "text": "Historical dynamics\n\nHistorical dynamics broadly includes the scientific modeling of history. This might also be termed computer modeling of history, historical simulation, or simulation of history - allowing for an extensive range of techniques in simulation and estimation. Historical dynamics does not exist as a separate science, but there are individual efforts such as long range planning, population modeling, economic forecasting, demographics, global modeling, country modeling, regional planning, urban planning and many others in the general categories of computer modeling, planning, forecasting, and simulations.\n\nSome examples of \"large\" history where historical dynamics simulations would be helpful include; global history, large structures, , long duration history, philosophy of history, Eurasian history, comparative history, long-range environmental history, world systems theory, non-Western political and economic development, and historical demography.\nWith the rise of technologies like wikis, and internet-wide search engines, some historical and social data can be mined to constrain models of history and society. Data from social media sites, and busy sites, can be mined for human patterns of action. These can provide more and more realistic behavioral models for individuals and groups of any size. Agent-based models and microsimulations of human behavior can be embedded in larger historical simulations. Related subfields are behavioral economics and human behavioral ecology.\n\nIn every sector of human activity, there are extensive databases for transportation data, urban development, health statistics, education data, social data, economic data—along with many projections. See , , , and .\n\nSome examples of database activity include Asian Development Bank statistics, World Bank data, and the International Monetary Fund data.\n\nTime series analysis and econometrics are well established fields for the analysis of trends and forecasting; but, survey data and microdatasets can also be used in forecasts and simulations.\n\nThe United Nations and other organizations routinely project the population of individual countries and regions of the world decades into the future. These demographic models are used by other organizations for projecting demand for services in all sectors of each economy.\n\n\nEach country often has their corresponding modeling groups for each of these major sectors. These can be grouped in separate articles according to sector. Groups include government departments, international aid agencies, as well as nonprofit and non-governmental organizations.\n\nA broad class of models used for economic and social modeling of countries and sectors are the Computable general equilibrium (CGE) model - also called applied general equilibrium models. In the context of time based simulations and policy analysis, see dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models.\n\nPartly because of the controversy over global climate change, there is an extensive network of global climate models, and related social and economic models. These seek to estimate, not only the change in climate and its physical effects, but also the impact on human society and the natural environment. See global economic models, social model, microsimulation, climate model, global climate models, and general circulation model.\n\nThe relationship between the environment and society is examined through environmental social science. human ecology, political ecology, and ecology, in general, can be areas where computer and mathematical modeling over time can be relevant to historical simulation.\n\nWeb-based historical simulations, simulations of history, interactive historical simulations, are increasingly popular for entertainment and educational purposes. The field is expanding rapidly and no central index seems to be available. Another example is \n\nSeveral computer games allow players to interact with the game to model societies over time. The Civilization (series) is one example. Others include Age of Empires, Rise of Nations, Spore, Colonization, Alpha Centauri, Call to Power, and . A longer list of games in historical context, which might include degrees of simulation, are found at .\n\nMilitary simulation is a well-developed field and increasingly accessible on the internet.\n\nComputer models for simulating society fall under artificial society, social simulation, computational sociology, computational social science, and mathematical sociology. There is an interdisciplinary Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation for computer simulation of social processes. The European Social Simulation Association promotes social simulation research in Europe; it is the publisher of JASSS. There is a corresponding Computational Social Science Society of the Americas., and a Pan-Asian Association for Agent-based Approach in Social Systems Sciences. PAAA lists some related Japanese associations.\n\nThe SimSoc (Simulated Society tool) is in its fifth edition.\n\nThere has been extensive research in urban planning, environmental planning and related fields: regional planning, land-use planning, transportation planning, urban studies, and regional science. Journals for these fields are listed at List of planning journals.\n\nSimCity is a game for simulations of artificial cities. It has spawned a range of \"sim\" games. The planning groups try to simulate changes in real cities. The game groups allow experiments with artificial cities. And the two are merging in such efforts as Vizicities\n\nThe profiling of industries is well developed, and most industries make forecasts and plans. See industrial history, history of steel, history of mining, history of construction, history of the petroleum industry, and many other histories of specific industries. See cyclical industrial dynamics for modeling of industries in the sense of \"historical dynamics of industries\". Some related terms are industrial planning, history of industry, industrial evolution, technology change, and technology forecasting. An example of \"history friendly\" industrial models. from the journal, Industrial and Corporate Change.\n\nEconomy-wide models must take into account the interactions between industry and the rest of the economy. See Input–output model, economic planning, and social accounting matrix for some relevant techniques.\n\nMany of the techniques from futures studies are applicable to historical dynamics. Whether projecting forward from a point in the past to the present for validation studies, or projecting backwards from the present into the past - many of the techniques are useful. Likewise, simulations of the past, or alternative pasts, provide a groundwork of techniques for futures studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1245162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245162", "title": "Hoplology", "text": "Hoplology\n\nHoplology is a science that studies human combative behavior and performance.\n\nThe word \"hoplology\" is derived from the Greek terms \"hoplos\" (a mythical plate-armored animal) and ὅπλον \"hóplon\", a wooden shield carried by some warriors in ancient Greece. The word \"hoplite\", derived from \"hoplon\", is the term for the classical Greek warrior who carried such a shield. The field originates in the 19th century with Sir Richard Burton; although the origin of the word is often attributed to Burton, there are earlier references to it. Despite the work of Burton and a few others, it was not until the 1960s that hoplology took shape as an academic field of study under the leadership of Donn F. Draeger.\n\nHoplology was at some time defined as the science of \"arms and weapons of offense and defence, human and bestial\" (Burton, 1884), and subsequently as \"the study of the basis, patterns, relationships, and significances of combative behavior at all levels of social complexity\" (Draeger, 1982).\n\nSid Campbell, a black belt level, tenth dan-ranked in karate, defines hoplology as \"the study of the evolution and development of human combatitive behaviour and performance ... the study of how people fight, why they fight, and how different cultures manifest those behaviours.\"\n\nFounded by Major Donn F. Draeger (USMC Ret.) (1922-1982), the International Hoplology Society (\"IHS\") exists to study the evolution and development of human combative behavior. Draeger had prior research and personal experience of classical fighting systems.\n\nDraeger's student and colleague, Hunter B. Armstrong, carries on the hoplological tradition as director of IHS. He is a leading authority on combative behavior and performance. He has trained in numerous Asian and Western martial arts from a young age. He has spent a lifetime studying hoplology and related areas, including functional conditioning for combat. He currently trains military and law enforcement around the world in these areas. He works closely with military and law enforcement, and has been central to the most recent recreation of the Marine Corps Martial Arts Program (MCMAP).\n\nIn recent years, with the advent of the Modern Army Combatives (MAC) Program in the US Army and the Marine Corps Martial Arts Program (MCMAP), there has been a rapid growth in both scientific and academic research. With Matt Larsen, the father of the MAC program, as a catalyst, research departments are growing at universities across the United States. One of the first such programs was at Kansas State University; the program is currently defunct.\n\nHoplology encompasses the segment of human culture concerned with weapons, armor, combative accouterments and fighting systems, in regard to their technical characteristics and the ways in which they interact with the economic, political, social and religious institutions of human societies, and has three main research areas: technological, functional, and behavioral.\n\n\nThere are three widely accepted axioms in hoplological studies.\n\n\nA variation on the pragmatics of hoplological understanding is found in theatrical representations of combat. While hoplology is still in its infancy, it has become an accepted area of study by scholars in several related disciplines such as combative psychology, killology, anthropology, and military history.\n\nThe entrenched nature of violence in human behavior is generally well understood. The skill and potential of deadly aggression is something within human genetics which predisposes humans to violent behavior. However, the genetics that predispose humans to violence is highly influenced by environmental factors. Humans will only tap into their violent potential once the need has arisen. Human genetics have developed an on-off switch in the brain. On the on side \"…the fighting activity itself is stimulated by individual and communal thrill, enjoyment in the competitive exercise of spiritual and physical faculties, and even cruelty, blood lust, and killing ecstasy.\" (Gat 2006) On the off-side violence is deterred away by emotions through fear, revulsion at violence and bloodshed, physical fatigue, compassion, and spirituality. So if the environmental factors that cause a man to be violent are present, then he will be violent. If the environmental factors that cause a man to be violent are not present, he will abstain and deter violence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1417121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1417121", "title": "Index of criminology articles", "text": "Index of criminology articles\n\nArticles related to criminology and law enforcement.\nacquittal – addiction – age of consent – age of criminal responsibility – aging offender – allocute – alloplastic adaptation – American Academy of Forensic Sciences – animal abuse – animus nocendi – anomie theory – answer (law) – anthropometry – antisocial behaviour order – antisocial personality disorder – arson – ASBO – asocial personality – assault – assault causing bodily harm – assault occasioning actual bodily harm – asset forfeiture – automatism – autoplastic adaptation – autopsy\n\nballistics – battered child syndrome – battered woman syndrome – battery – behavior theory – Jeremy Bentham – Alphonse Bertillon – binge drinking – biosocial criminology – blackmail – blunt force trauma – bodily harm – body cavity search – born criminal – brain lesion theory – breaking and entering – British Society of Criminology - Zebulon Reed Brockway – broken windows thesis – burglary\n\ncannibalism – capital punishment – carjacking – case law – causes and correlates of crime – celerity – chain of custody – chemical castration – child abuse – child neglect – child sexual abuse – chronic mentally ill offender – civil law – clandestine abuse – classical school of criminology – closed-circuit television – cohort analysis – community policing – community service – compulsive gambling – computational criminology – computer abuse – computer bulletin board – computer crime – computer forensics – computer-related crime – conflict perspective – consensual crime – consensus model – conspiracy – constitutive criminology – contact rapist – conviction rate – coroner – corporal punishment – correctional psychology – counterfeiting – CPTED – crime – crime against humanity – crime index – crime mapping – crime of passion – crime rate – crime statistics – criminal anthropology – criminal homicide – criminal insanity – criminal justice – criminal justice system – criminal law – criminal negligence – criminal record – criminal tattoos – criminal threatening – criminalistics – criminalization – criminaloid – criminology – criminology of place – critical criminology – culture conflict – cycle of violence\n\ndangerous drug – dangerousness – date-rape drug – Daubert Standard – death penalty – deconstructionist theories – decriminalization – defense of justification – defensible space – detective – deterrence – deterrence strategy – deviance – differential association – domestic violence – double jeopardy – dramaturgical perspective – drug possession – drug-defined crime – drug-related crime – drunk driving – DUI – Durham rule\n\necological theory – elder abuse – embezzlement – enforcement discretion – environmental crime – environmental criminology – espionage – ethnic succession – evidence collection – exile – expert witness – external validity – extortion –\n\nfamily violence – fear of crime – federal inmate – federal interest computer – felony – feminist criminology – fentanyl – Enrico Ferri – Fifth Amendment rights of witnesses – fine – fingerprint – first degree murder – focal concern – forcible rape – forensic accounting – forensic anthropology – forensic ballistics – forensic engineering – forensic entomology – forensic evidence – forensic genetics – forensic odontology – forensic palynology – forensic pathology – forensic psychiatry – forensic psychology – forensic science – forensic toxicology – forgery – Willie Francis – fraud – frustration-aggression theory\n\ngamma hydroxybutyrate – gender-politics model – general deterrence – genocide – geographic profiling – grand jury – grave robbing – grievous bodily harm – guilt – guilty but mentally ill – gun control\n\nhabitual offender statute – hacker – harm reduction – hate crime – hedonistic calculus – heroin – home invasion – homelessness – homicide – honour culture – honour killing – house arrest – human rights – hybrid offence\n\nidentity theft – illegal gambling – illegitimate opportunity structure – imprisonment – incapacitation – inchoate offense – indictable offence – individual rights advocate – infraction – \"in limine\" – insanity defense – instiutionalization – integrated theory of criminology – interactionist perspectives – interdiction – internal validity – international crime (disambiguation) – invisible evidence – irresistible impulse test – isobutyl nitrite\n\njust deserts – justice\n\nkidnapping – kleptomania – kriminalpolitik\n\nlabeling (criminology) – laceration – larceny – larceny-theft – Law Enforcement Assistance Administration (LEAA) – law enforcement in the United Kingdom – law enforcement in the United States – left realism – legal immunity – libel – life course theories – liquor laws – Locard's exchange principle – Cesare Lombroso – looting – luminol\n\nJesus Malverde – manslaughter – manslaughter in English law – mass murder – mass surveillance – M'Naghten Rules – MDMA – Meadow's law – media influence theory – medroxyprogesterone acetate treatment – mens rea – methylenedioxymethamphetamine – misdemeanor – modus operandi – Monozygotic twins – moral enterprise – moral entrepreneur – motive – moral panic – Munchausen's syndrome by proxy – murder – murder in English law\n\nnarcotic – narcotic abuse theory – narcotrafico – national crime victimization survey – needle exchange – negligent homicide – neoclassical criminology – NIBRS – nurturant strategy\n\noccupational crime – offender profiling – OJJDP – operant behavior – Operation Spanner – opportunity structure – organised crime – organized crime – ostracism\n\npanopticon – paraffin test – participatory justice – peacemaking criminology – penal couple – penile plethysmography – penitentiary – penology – perfect crime – perjury – pharmaceutical diversion – phenobarbital – phenomenological criminology – pimping – piracy – plea bargain – plea of temporary insanity – police – police corruption – police misconduct – police riot – police state – police surgeon – polygraph – Portland Seven – positivism – positivist school of criminology – post-crime victimization – post-mortem examination – postmortem lividity – postal fraud – postmodern criminology – powercontrol theory – Alma Preinkert – primary deviance – primary research – prison – prison cell – prisons in the United States – Prohibition – prosecutor's fallacy – prostitution – protection/avoidance strategy – psychiatric criminology – psychiatric theories of criminology – psychoactive substance – psychoanalytic criminology – psychological profiling – psychological theories – psychopath – public order crime – punishment – pure research – pyromania\n\nqualitative method – questioned document examination\n\nracial profiling – racially motivated crime – racketeering – radical criminology – rape – realist criminology – recidivism – recidivism rate – reciprocal obligation – reintegrative shaming – remand – remorse – replicability – research design – restitution – restraining order – revolving door syndrome – reward – rigor mortis – riot – robbery – rohypnol – routine activities theory\n\nsecond degree murder – secondary deviance – secondary research – secondary victimization – securities fraud – sentence – serial killer – sex offender – sexual assault – sexual crime – sexual harassment – shaken baby syndrome – shame – shoplifting – simple assault – slander – smuggling – social control – social control theory – social disorganization – social epidemiology – social justice – social ostracism – social policy – sodomy law – somatotyping – specific deterrence – speed (drug) – spousal abuse – spree killing – stalking – starlight tour – statutory law – strain theory – street fighting – street gang – Theodore Streleski – strict liability crimes – subcultural theory – suicide pact – summary conviction – summary offence – supermale – superpredators (disambiguation) – Edwin H. Sutherland\n\ntarget hardening – tax evasion – techniques of neutralization – terminal ballistics – terrorism – tests of significance – theft – threat analysis – three strikes law – thug life (concept) – torture – total institution – toxicology – trace evidence – transient evidence – transylvanian hypothesis – treason – trespass\n\nuni-causal – uniform crime report – universal jurisdiction – usury – utilitarianism – uxoricide\n\nvandalism – verbal abuse – verstehen – victim impact statement – victim-precipitated homicide – victim-proneness – victim-witness assistance program – victimization rate – victimless crime – victimogenesis – victimology – violence – violent crime – VOCA – voluntary euthanasia – Juan Vucetich\n\nwar crime – War on Drugs – weapon possession – white-collar crime – witness intimidation\n\nyakuza – young offender\n\nzero tolerance\n"}
{"id": "7983699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7983699", "title": "Knowledge divide", "text": "Knowledge divide\n\nThe knowledge divide is the gap in standards of living between those who can find, create, manage, process, and disseminate information or knowledge, and those who are impaired in this process. According to a 2005 UNESCO World Report, the rise in the 21st century of a global information society has resulted in the emergence of knowledge as a valuable resource, increasingly determining who has access to power and profit. The rapid dissemination of information on a potentially global scale as a result of new information media and the globally uneven ability to assimilate knowledge and information has resulted in potentially expanding gaps in knowledge between individuals and nations.\n\nIn the 21st century, the emergence of the knowledge society becomes pervasive. The transformations of world's economy and of each society have a fast pace. Together with information and communication technologies (ICT) these new paradigms have the power to reshape the global economy. In order to keep pace with innovations, to come up with new ideas, people need to produce and manage knowledge. This is why knowledge has become essential for all societies.\n\nAccording to UNESCO and the World Bank, knowledge gaps between nations may occur due to the varying degrees by which individual nations incorporate the following elements:\n\n\nThe information and ICT systems that support knowledge are very important. This is why digitization is viewed closely related to knowledge. Scientists generally agree that there is a digital divide, recently different reports also showed the existence of knowledge divide.\n\nThe creation and effective use of knowledge are increasingly related to the development of an ICT infrastructure. Without ICT, it is impossible to have an infrastructure able to process the huge flow of information required in an advanced economy. In particular, without adequate technical support, it is difficult to develop and use e-learning and electronic documents to overcome time and space constraints.\n\nThe digital divide is, however, but one important part of the larger knowledge divide. As UNESCO states, \"closing the digital divide will not suffice to close the knowledge divide, for access to useful, relevant knowledge is more than simply a matter of infrastructure—it depends on training, cognitive skills and regulatory frameworks geared towards access to contents.\"\n\nIn the book Digital Dead End, Virginia Eubanks criticizes the way that the digital divide is generally thought of as a division between haves and have-nots, where the solution is distribution. This over simplistic depiction obscures the fact that often social and structural inequality is at the root of the divide. According to a study done by Eubanks with women of the YWCA, the women of the community \"insisted that have-nots possess many different kinds of crucial information and skills.\" In other words, it is not simply knowledge of the technology itself that is the issue but the structural system based on perpetuating the status quo in which the haves \"hoard\" knowledge.\n\nFirst, it was noticed that a great difference exists between the North and the South (rich countries vs. poor countries). The development of knowledge depends on spreading Internet and computer technology and also on the development of education in these countries. If a country has attained a higher literacy level then this will result in having higher level of knowledge.\nIndeed, UNESCO's report details many social issues in knowledge divide related to globalization. There was noticed a knowledge divide with respect to\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49986539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49986539", "title": "List of age restrictions", "text": "List of age restrictions\n\nThis article gives an outline of age restrictions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1030670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030670", "title": "List of laws", "text": "List of laws\n\nThis is a list of \"laws\" applied to various disciplines. These are often adages or predictions with the appellation 'Law', although they do not apply in the legal sense, cannot be scientifically tested, or are intended only as rough descriptions (rather than applying in each case). These 'laws' are sometimes called rules of thumb.\n\nSee List of legal topics for 'laws' in the legal sense.\n\nSee List of scientific laws for falsifiable laws that are said to apply universally and literally.\n\n\n\n\n\nSee also Glossary of sound laws in the Indo-European languages\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54250721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54250721", "title": "Louisa Morton Greene", "text": "Louisa Morton Greene\n\nLouisa Morton Greene (née Louisa Morton Willard; May 23, 1819 - March 5, 1900) was a 19th-century American reformer, writer, abolitionist, suffragist, women's rights worker, temperance worker, and Civil War relief worker, from Massachusetts. Though she had limited schooling, she was the first American woman to rebel against discrimination towards women in industry, refusing to accept a woman's pay rate after doing a man's job. Greene was also an early champion of the temperance and suffrage causes in her writing and speaking engagements. She died in 1900.\n\nLouisa Morton Willard was born in Ashburnham, Massachusetts, May 23, 1819. She is a descendant from sturdy New England ancestors. Her father, Henry Willard. blacksmith and farmer, removed from Vermont and settled in Ashburnham in the early years of the present century. Bereft of both parents in early childhood, she was deprived of schooling and thrown upon her own resources at the age of 13. \n\nShe obtained employment in a woolen factory in Dedham, Massachusetts, and worked for several years for the pittance of US$1.00 to $2.00 per week and board, working 14 hours a day. There, upon the heads of bobbins, she learned to write. Notwithstanding her long hours of labor, she found time for constant improvement by reading and study. Her habits of strict economy enabled her to save a portion of her wages, and at the age of 17 she had $150.00 in the bank. Then came her first revolt against the injustice shown to women in industrial pursuits. Gross discrimination in the matter of wages was made, simply on the ground of sex. Called upon at one time to take a man's place at a spindle, she performed her duties well and to the satisfaction of her employer. When pay-day came around and she demanded the same compensation that the man had been securing, her request was received with amazement. The plucky young girl stood her ground and refused to return to the spindle unless paid at the same rate as the man whose place she was filling. She was promptly dismissed from the factory, to be recalled a few weeks later at a higher rate of pay. \n\nIn 1840, she taught school near Portsmouth, New Hampshire. There, she formed the acquaintance of Jonas Greene, of Maine, and they married in 1841. Mr. Greene subsequently became a prominent politician, representing his district in each branch of the State legislature for several successive terms. His success in life he ascribed largely to the cooperation and support of his wife. Removing with her husband to the then somewhat sparsely settled Oxford County, Maine, a new and active life opened for her. While performing faithfully her duties, she found time to enter into the philanthropic and reform work of the times. Early becoming a convert to the Water cure system of treating the sick, she familiarized herself with it and soon developed a remarkable ability for the care and treatment of the sick. Physicians and medicines were unknown in her household, and her skill was in demand in the community. \n\nIn 1850, Greene began to espouse the anti-slavery cause. She and others gathered women together and organized anti-slavery societies. Literature was distributed, \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" was read, and she wrote many articles for the local papers. During the American Civil War, Greene's patriotic labors were untiring. When hospital supplies were needed, she collected, prepared and forwarded them. Greene's newspaper contributions for years covered a wide range of subjects. She was an early champion of the temperance and suffrage causes in her writing and speaking engagements. In 1869, she removed with her family to Manassas, Virginia, where her husband died in 1873. With advancing years, Greene withdrew from active philanthropic work. She died March 5, 1900.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48471349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48471349", "title": "Marshall v Southampton Health Authority", "text": "Marshall v Southampton Health Authority\n\nMarshall v Southampton and South West Hampshire Area Health Authority (1986) Case 152/84 is an EU law case, concerning the conflict of law between a national legal system and European Union law.\n\nHelen Marshall, a senior dietitian, claimed that her dismissal on grounds of being old violated the Equal Treatment Directive 1976. She was an employee of an Area Health Authority (or \"AHA\"), a body established by the UK government under the National Health Service Act 1977, as amended by the Health Services Act 1980.\n\nMarshall was dismissed after 14 years on 31 March 1980, approximately four weeks after attaining the age of 62, despite her expressing a willingness to continue in employment until the age of 65 (4 February 1983). The sole reason for her dismissal was that she had passed 'the retirement age'; the AHA’s policy was to make women compulsorily retire at 60, but men at 65.\n\nSection 27 (1) and 28 (1) of the Social Security Act 1975 provided state pensions were to be granted to men at 65 and woman at 60, though notably did not impose any obligation to retire at the age at which the state pension becomes payable. \n\nThe AHA were able to waive the term, which was deemed an implied term of Marshall's contract of employment and had done so for a further two years after she attained the age of 60. \n\nGiven Marshall suffered financial loss, namely the difference between her earnings as an employee and her pension, and since she lost the satisfaction gained from work she initiated proceedings before an industrial tribunal, contending her dismissal constituted discriminatory treatment on the ground of sex, contrary to the sexual discrimination act and community law. The tribunal dismissed the claim in so far as it was based on infringement of the sexual discrimination act, since s 6 (4) permits discrimination of the grounds of sex in regards to retirement. However the claim on the basis that the principle of equal treatment laid down by directive 76/207 was upheld. \n\nThe employment appeal tribunal affirmed the industrial tribunal on the first point, yet set aside the decision on the second point, on the basis that an individual had no \"locus standi\" and could not rely upon such a violation in proceedings before a United Kingdom court or tribunal. \n\nThe English Court of Appeal found the Area Health Authority an ‘emanation of the State’, observing that the AHA respondent was constituted under s.8(1) of the National Health Service Act 1977. The Court made reference of two questions for preliminary ruling to the European Court of Justice (ECJ): \n\nAdvocate General Slynn argued the ‘state’ should be construed broadly, to cover all organs, saying that insinuating ‘horizontal effect’ into directives would ‘totally blur the distinction between EU directives and regulations'.\n\nThe ECJ, in a full court of 13 judges, held there was no horizontal direct effect. It does not matter what capacity a state is acting. Thus it fell to enquire whether the NHS should be deemed an \"independent legal person\" or an \"arm of the state\"; and that was a matter for the national court.\n\nThis case involved an application for a preliminary ruling. Once the ECJ had answered the question, their decision was remitted to the reconvened Court of Appeal (which in the interim had adjourned this case). The Court of Appeal was then obliged to reach a decision in the light of the ECJ ruling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47795538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47795538", "title": "Models of teaching social science", "text": "Models of teaching social science\n\nA model of teaching is a plan or pattern that can be used to shape curriculum's,to design instructional materials and to guide instruction in the classroom.\n\n\n\nIntroduction,importance,types\n"}
{"id": "258901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=258901", "title": "Mutilation", "text": "Mutilation\n\nMutilation or maiming (from the Latin: \"mutilus\") is cutting off or injury to a body part of a person so that the part of the body is permanently damaged, detached or disfigured.\n\nSome ethnic groups practice ritual mutilation, e.g. scarification, burning, flagellation, tattooing, or wheeling, as part of a rite of passage. In some cases, the term may apply to treatment of dead bodies, such as soldiers mutilated after they have been killed by an enemy.\n\nThe traditional Chinese practices of \"língchí\" and foot binding are forms of mutilation. One form of mutilation that has captured the imagination of Westerners is the \"long-neck\" people, a sub-group of the Karen known as the Padaung where women wear brass rings around their neck. The act of tattooing is also considered a form of self-mutilation according to some cultural traditions, such as within Christianity. A joint statement released by the United Nations and numerous other international bodies opposes female circumcision as a form of mutilation. Whether or not male circumcision amounts to mutilation is a subject of academic debate. The Danish Society for General Medicine has declared non medical male circumcision an ethically unacceptable mutilation while the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has condemned non medical male circumcision as a \"violation of the physical integrity of children\".\n\nCastration is also a form of mutilation, as are body piercing, some forms of extreme body modification, and some cosmetic surgery.\n\n\"Maiming\", or mutilation which involves the loss of, or incapacity to use, a bodily member, is and has been practised by many societies with various cultural and religious significances, and is also a customary form of physical punishment, especially applied on the principle of an eye for an eye.\n\nThe Araucanian warrior Galvarino suffered this punishment as a prisoner during the Spanish conquest of Chile.\n\nIn law, maiming is a criminal offence; the old law term for a special case of maiming of persons was mayhem, an Anglo-French variant form of the word.\n\nMaiming of animals by others than their owners is a particular form of the offence generally grouped as malicious damage. For the purpose of the law as to this offence animals are divided into cattle, which includes horses, pigs and asses, and other animals which are either subjects of larceny at common law or are usually kept in confinement or for domestic purposes.\n\nIn Britain under the Malicious Damage Act 1861 the punishment for maiming of cattle was three to fourteen years penal servitude; malicious injury to other animals is a misdemeanour punishable on summary conviction. For a second offence the penalty is imprisonment with hard labor for over twelve months. Maiming of animals by their owner falls under the Cruelty to Animals Acts.\n\nIn times when even judicial physical punishment was still commonly allowed to cause not only intense pain and public humiliation during the administration but also to inflict permanent physical damage, or even deliberately intended to mark the criminal for life by docking or branding, one of the common anatomical target areas not normally under permanent cover of clothing (so particularly merciless in the long term) were the ear(s).\n\nIn England, for example, various pamphleteers attacking the religious views of the Anglican episcopacy under William Laud, the Archbishop of Canterbury, had their ears cut off for those writings: in 1630 Dr. Alexander Leighton and in 1637 still other Puritans, John Bastwick, Henry Burton and William Prynne.\n\nIn Scotland one of the Covenanters, James Gavin of Douglas, Lanarkshire, had his ears cut off for refusing to renounce his religious faith. In Japan, Gonsalo Garcia and his companions were similarly punished.\n\nNotably in various jurisdictions of colonial British North America, even relatively minor crimes, such as hog stealing, were punishable by having one's ears nailed to the pillory and slit loose, or even cropped, a counterfeiter would be branded on top (for that crime, considered lèse-majesté, the older mirror punishment was boiling in oil), which was an example of western mutilation.\n\nIndependence did not render American justice any less brutal. For example, in the future state of Tennessee, an example of harsh 'frontier law' under the 1780 Cumberland Compact took place in 1793 when Judge John McNairy sentenced Nashville's first horse thief, John McKain, Jr., to be fastened to a wooden stock one hour for 39 lashes, have his ears cut off and cheeks branded with the letters \"H\" and \"T\".\n\nTongue cutting is also a form of mutilation as this leads to bleeding to death in most cases with choking in the lungs.\n\nNebahne Yohannes, an unsuccessful claimant to the Ethiopian imperial throne who had his ears and nose cut off, yet was then freed. This form of mutilation against unsuccessful claimants to thrones has been in use in middle-eastern regions for thousands of years. To qualify as a king, formerly, one had to exemplify perfection. Obvious physical deformities such as missing noses, ears, or lips, are thereby sufficient disqualifications. The victim in these cases is typically freed alive to act (\"a\") as an example to others, and (\"b\") as no longer a threat.\n\n"}
{"id": "22808542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22808542", "title": "National e-Governance Plan", "text": "National e-Governance Plan\n\nThe National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) is an initiative of the Government of India to make all government services available to the citizens of India via electronic media. NeGP was formulated by the Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) and Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG). The Government approved the National e-Governance Plan, consisting of 27 \"Mission Mode Projects\" (MMPs) and Tencomponents, on 18 May 2006. This is an enabler of Digital India initiative, and UMANG (Unified Mobile Application for New-age Governance) in turn is an enabler of NeGP.\n\nThe 11th report of the Second Administrative Reforms Commission, titled \"Promoting e-Governance - The Smart Way Forward\", established the government's position that an expansion in e-Government was necessary in India. The ARC report was submitted to the Government of India on 20 December 2008. The report cited several prior initiatives as sources of inspiration, including references to the Singapore ONE programme. To pursue this goal, the National e-Governance Plan was formulated by the Department of Information Technology (DIT) and Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DAR&PG). The program required the development of new applications to allow citizen access to government services through Common Service Centers; it aimed to both reduce government costs and improve access to services.\n\nLack of needs analysis, business process re-engineering, interoperability across MMPs, and coping with new technology trends (such as mobile interfaces, cloud computing, and digital signatures) were some of the limitations of the initiative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381564", "title": "Normative", "text": "Normative\n\nNormative generally means relating to an evaluative standard. Normativity is the phenomenon in human societies of designating some actions or outcomes as good or desirable or permissible and others as bad or undesirable or impermissible. A norm in this normative sense means a standard for evaluating or making judgments about behavior or outcomes. Normative is sometimes also used, somewhat confusingly, to mean relating to a descriptive standard: doing what is normally done or what most others are expected to do in practice. In this sense a norm is not evaluative, a basis for judging behavior or outcomes; it is simply a fact or observation about behavior or outcomes, without judgment. Many researchers in this field try to restrict the use of the term normative to the evaluative sense and refer to the description of behavior and outcomes as positive, descriptive, predictive, or empirical. \n\n\"Normative\" has specialized meanings in different academic disciplines such as philosophy, social sciences, and law. In most contexts, normative means 'relating to an evaluation or value judgment.' Normative propositions tend to evaluate some object or some course of action. Normative content differs from descriptive content.\n\nOne of the major developments in analytic philosophy has seen the reach of normativity spread to virtually all corners of the field, from ethics and the philosophy of action, to epistemology, metaphysics, and the philosophy of science. Saul Kripke famously showed that rules (including mathematical rules, such as the repetition of a decimal pattern) are normative in an important respect.\n\nThough philosophers disagree about how normativity should be understood, it has become increasingly common to understand normative claims as claims about reasons. As Derek Parfit explains:\n\nIn philosophy, \"normative\" statements make claims about how things should or ought to be, how to value them, which things are good or bad, and which actions are right or wrong. Normative claims are usually contrasted with positive (i.e. descriptive, explanatory, or constative) claims when describing types of theories, beliefs, or propositions. Positive statements are (purportedly) factual statements that attempt to describe reality.\n\nFor example, \"children should eat vegetables\", and \"those who would sacrifice liberty for security deserve neither\" are normative claims. On the other hand, \"vegetables contain a relatively high proportion of vitamins\", and \"a common consequence of sacrificing liberty for security is a loss of both\" are positive claims. Whether a statement is normative is logically independent of whether it is verified, verifiable, or popularly held.\n\nThere are several schools of thought regarding the status of normative statements and whether they can be rationally discussed or defended. Among these schools are the tradition of practical reason extending from Aristotle through Kant to Habermas, which asserts that they can, and the tradition of emotivism, which maintains that they are merely expressions of emotions and have no cognitive content. \n\nNormative statements and norms, as well as their meanings, are an integral part of human life. They are fundamental for prioritizing goals and organizing and planning. Thought, belief, emotion, and action are the basis of much ethical and political discourse; indeed, normativity is arguably the key feature distinguishing ethical and political discourse from other discourses (such as natural science).\n\nMuch modern moral/ethical philosophy takes as its starting point the apparent variance between peoples and cultures regarding the ways they define what is considered to be appropriate/desirable/praiseworthy/valuable/good etc. (In other words, variance in how individuals, groups and societies define what is in accordance with their normative standards.) This has led philosophers such as A.J. Ayer and J.L. Mackie (for different reasons and in different ways) to cast doubt on the meaningfulness of normative statements. However, other philosophers, such as Christine Korsgaard, have argued for a source of normative value which is independent of individuals' subjective morality and which consequently attains (a lesser or greater degree of) objectivity.\n\nIn the social sciences, the term \"normative\" has broadly the same meaning as its usage in philosophy, but may also relate, in a sociological context, to the role of cultural 'norms'; the shared values or institutions that structural functionalists regard as constitutive of the social structure and social cohesion. These values and units of socialization thus act to encourage or enforce social activity and outcomes that \"ought\" to (with respect to the norms implicit in those structures) occur, while discouraging or preventing social activity that \"ought not\" occur. That is, they promote social activity that is socially \"valued\" (see philosophy above). While there are always anomalies in social activity (typically described as \"crime\" or anti-social behaviour, see also normality (behavior)) the normative effects of popularly endorsed beliefs (such as \"family values\" or \"common sense\") push most social activity towards a generally homogeneous set. From such reasoning, however, functionalism shares an affinity with ideological conservatism.\n\nNormative economics deals with questions of what sort of economic policies should be pursued, in order to achieve desired (that is, valued) economic outcomes.\n\nIn the academic discipline of International relations, Smith, Baylis & Owens in the \"Introduction\" to their 2008 book make the case that the normative position or normative theory is to make the world a better place and that this theoretical worldview aims to do so by being aware of implicit assumptions and explicit assumptions that constitute a non-normative position, and align or position the normative towards the loci of other key socio-political theories such as political Liberalism, Marxism, political Constructivism, political Realism, political Idealism and political Globalization.\n\nIn law, as an academic discipline, the term \"normative\" is used to describe the way something ought to be done according to a value position. As such, normative arguments can be conflicting, insofar as different values can be inconsistent with one another. For example, from one normative value position the purpose of the criminal process may be to repress crime. From another value position, the purpose of the criminal justice system could be to protect individuals from the moral harm of wrongful conviction.\n\nNormative elements are defined in International Organization for Standardization Directives Part 2 as \"elements that describe the scope of the document, and which set out provisions\". Provisions include \"requirements\", \"recommendations\" and \"statements\". \"Statements\" include permissions, possibilities and capabilities. A \"requirement\" is an \"expression in the content of a document conveying criteria to be fulfilled if compliance with the document is to be claimed and from which no deviation is permitted.\" It is not necessary to comply with recommendations and statements in order to comply with the standard; it is necessary to comply only with the requirements (that are denoted by the verbal form \"shall\"). There is much confusion between \"normative\" and \"requirement\", however the ISO terminology is supported by national standards bodies worldwide and is the legitimate description of these terms in the context of standards documents.\n\nIn standards terminology still used by some organisations, \"normative\" means \"considered to be a prescriptive part of the standard\". It characterises that part of the standard which describes what \"ought\" (see philosophy above) to be done within the application of that standard. It is implicit that application of that standard will result in a \"valuable\" outcome (\"ibid.\"). For example, many standards have an introduction, preface, or summary that is considered non-normative, as well as a main body that is considered normative. \"Compliance\" is defined as \"complies with the normative sections of the standard\"; an object that complies with the normative sections but not the non-normative sections of a standard is still considered to be in compliance.\n\n\nTypically, \"normative\" is contrasted with \"informative\" (referring to the standard's descriptive, explanatory or positive content). Informative data is supplemental information such as additional guidance, supplemental recommendations, tutorials, commentary as well as background, history, development, and relationship with other elements. Informative data is not a requirement and doesn’t compel compliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1003283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1003283", "title": "Olinde Rodrigues", "text": "Olinde Rodrigues\n\nBenjamin Olinde Rodrigues (6 October 1795 – 17 December 1851), more commonly known as Olinde Rodrigues, was a French banker, mathematician, and social reformer.\n\nRodrigues was born into a well-to-do Sephardi Jewish family in Bordeaux.\n\nRodrigues was awarded a doctorate in mathematics on 28 June 1815 by the University of Paris. His dissertation contains the result now called Rodrigues' formula.\n\nAfter graduation, Rodrigues became a banker. A close associate of the Comte de Saint-Simon, Rodrigues continued, after Saint-Simon's death in 1825, to champion the older man's socialist ideals, a school of thought that came to be known as Saint-Simonianism. During this period, Rodrigues published writings on politics, social reform, and banking.\n\nIn 1840 he published a result on transformation groups, which applied Leonhard Euler's four squares formula, a precursor to the quaternions of William Rowan Hamilton, to the problem of representing rotations in space. \nIn 1846 Arthur Cayley acknowledged Euler's and Rodrigues' priority describing orthogonal transformations.\n\nIn mathematics Rodrigues is remembered for three results: Rodrigues' rotation formula for vectors, the Rodrigues formula about series of orthogonal polynomials and the Euler–Rodrigues parameters. He is also credited as originating the idea of the artist as an avant-garde. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11324648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324648", "title": "Open house (school)", "text": "Open house (school)\n\nAn open house (also known as open day and at-home day) is an event held at an institution where its doors are open to the general public to allow people to look around the institution and learn about it. These are often held at schools and universities to attract prospective students, familiarize them (and their parents) with the facilities, allow new students to become familiar with facilities and meet others, or to open informal communication channels between school staff and the students and their parents.\n\nSchool open houses are about two hours long, the length of a good movie or show . . . a well-executed event sets the stage for a successful school year. The face-to-face meetings with families help build relationships, increase the visibility of the parent group, and develop a sense of community at school.\nContrary to what its name might seem to imply, an open house at the average school is not intended for general members of the public, but rather, specifically, for the parents and family members of the students who either attend or are considering attending a school. In the overwhelming majority of schools in the United States, open house is held once a year, typically in the first month or first quarter of the school year. It is common for open houses to be held in the evenings or weekends, to allow for parents who work during the standard the work-week hours to attend, but holding open house in the daytime is not unusual, especially at elementary schools.\n\nIn elementary schools, open houses often have no schedule; parents come and go during the scheduled hours as they please, and some teachers may be willing to discuss individual students' progress with their parents. Some schools may schedule displays of school activities, such as a performance by a student choir.\n\nIn secondary schools—divided into middle schools (also called junior high schools) and high schools (also called senior high schools)—the single most important purpose of the open house is to allow parents and teachers meet each other face-to-face. In many middle schools and high schools, parents are given a schedule, often the same schedule their child follows during the school day. The parents go from one class to another, in the sequence that their child attends them, usually in the very same classrooms. Typically in such open houses the parents have only 5–15 minutes with their child's teacher, which provides time for the teacher to explain their class expectations, but not enough time to discuss individual children.\n\n\nFor examples of open houses as informative events, see the following:\n"}
{"id": "37010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37010", "title": "Philosophy of science", "text": "Philosophy of science\n\nPhilosophy of science is a sub-field of philosophy concerned with the foundations, methods, and implications of science. The central questions of this study concern what qualifies as science, the reliability of scientific theories, and the ultimate purpose of science. This discipline overlaps with metaphysics, ontology, and epistemology, for example, when it explores the relationship between science and truth.\n\nThere is no consensus among philosophers about many of the central problems concerned with the philosophy of science, including whether science can reveal the truth about unobservable things and whether scientific reasoning can be justified at all. In addition to these general questions about science as a whole, philosophers of science consider problems that apply to particular sciences (such as biology or physics). Some philosophers of science also use contemporary results in science to reach conclusions about philosophy itself.\n\nWhile philosophical thought pertaining to science dates back at least to the time of Aristotle, philosophy of science emerged as a distinct discipline only in the 20th century in the wake of the logical positivism movement, which aimed to formulate criteria for ensuring all philosophical statements' meaningfulness and objectively assessing them. Thomas Kuhn's 1962 book \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" was also formative, challenging the view of scientific progress as steady, cumulative acquisition of knowledge based on a fixed method of systematic experimentation and instead arguing that any progress is relative to a \"paradigm,\" the set of questions, concepts, and practices that define a scientific discipline in a particular historical period. Karl Popper and Charles Sanders Peirce moved on from positivism to establish a modern set of standards for scientific methodology.\n\nSubsequently, the coherentist approach to science, in which a theory is validated if it makes sense of observations as part of a coherent whole, became prominent due to W. V. Quine and others. Some thinkers such as Stephen Jay Gould seek to ground science in axiomatic assumptions, such as the uniformity of nature. A vocal minority of philosophers, and Paul Feyerabend (1924–1994) in particular, argue that there is no such thing as the \"scientific method\", so all approaches to science should be allowed, including explicitly supernatural ones. Another approach to thinking about science involves studying how knowledge is created from a sociological perspective, an approach represented by scholars like David Bloor and Barry Barnes. Finally, a tradition in continental philosophy approaches science from the perspective of a rigorous analysis of human experience.\n\nPhilosophies of the particular sciences range from questions about the nature of time raised by Einstein's general relativity, to the implications of economics for public policy. A central theme is whether one scientific discipline can be reduced to the terms of another. That is, can chemistry be reduced to physics, or can sociology be reduced to individual psychology? The general questions of philosophy of science also arise with greater specificity in some particular sciences. For instance, the question of the validity of scientific reasoning is seen in a different guise in the foundations of statistics. The question of what counts as science and what should be excluded arises as a life-or-death matter in the philosophy of medicine. Additionally, the philosophies of biology, of psychology, and of the social sciences explore whether the scientific studies of human nature can achieve objectivity or are inevitably shaped by values and by social relations.\n\nDistinguishing between science and non-science is referred to as the demarcation problem. For example, should psychoanalysis be considered science? How about so-called creation science, the inflationary multiverse hypothesis, or macroeconomics? Karl Popper called this the central question in the philosophy of science. However, no unified account of the problem has won acceptance among philosophers, and some regard the problem as unsolvable or uninteresting. Martin Gardner has argued for the use of a Potter Stewart standard (\"I know it when I see it\") for recognizing pseudoscience.\n\nEarly attempts by the logical positivists grounded science in observation while non-science was non-observational and hence meaningless. Popper argued that the central property of science is falsifiability. That is, every genuinely scientific claim is capable of being proven false, at least in principle.\n\nAn area of study or speculation that masquerades as science in an attempt to claim a legitimacy that it would not otherwise be able to achieve is referred to as pseudoscience, fringe science, or junk science. Physicist Richard Feynman coined the term \"cargo cult science\" for cases in which researchers believe they are doing science because their activities have the outward appearance of it but actually lack the \"kind of utter honesty\" that allows their results to be rigorously evaluated.\n\nA closely related question is what counts as a good scientific explanation. In addition to providing predictions about future events, society often takes scientific theories to provide explanations for events that occur regularly or have already occurred. Philosophers have investigated the criteria by which a scientific theory can be said to have successfully explained a phenomenon, as well as what it means to say a scientific theory has explanatory power.\n\nOne early and influential theory of scientific explanation is the deductive-nomological model. It says that a successful scientific explanation must deduce the occurrence of the phenomena in question from a scientific law. This view has been subjected to substantial criticism, resulting in several widely acknowledged counterexamples to the theory. It is especially challenging to characterize what is meant by an explanation when the thing to be explained cannot be deduced from any law because it is a matter of chance, or otherwise cannot be perfectly predicted from what is known. Wesley Salmon developed a model in which a good scientific explanation must be statistically relevant to the outcome to be explained. Others have argued that the key to a good explanation is unifying disparate phenomena or providing a causal mechanism.\n\nAlthough it is often taken for granted, it is not at all clear how one can infer the validity of a general statement from a number of specific instances or infer the truth of a theory from a series of successful tests. For example, a chicken observes that each morning the farmer comes and gives it food, for hundreds of days in a row. The chicken may therefore use inductive reasoning to infer that the farmer will bring food \"every\" morning. However, one morning, the farmer comes and kills the chicken. How is scientific reasoning more trustworthy than the chicken's reasoning?\n\nOne approach is to acknowledge that induction cannot achieve certainty, but observing more instances of a general statement can at least make the general statement more probable. So the chicken would be right to conclude from all those mornings that it is likely the farmer will come with food again the next morning, even if it cannot be certain. However, there remain difficult questions about the process of interpreting any given evidence into a probability that the general statement is true. One way out of these particular difficulties is to declare that all beliefs about scientific theories are subjective, or personal, and correct reasoning is merely about how evidence should change one's subjective beliefs over time.\n\nSome argue that what scientists do is not inductive reasoning at all but rather abductive reasoning, or inference to the best explanation. In this account, science is not about generalizing specific instances but rather about hypothesizing explanations for what is observed. As discussed in the previous section, it is not always clear what is meant by the \"best explanation.\" Ockham's razor, which counsels choosing the simplest available explanation, thus plays an important role in some versions of this approach. To return to the example of the chicken, would it be simpler to suppose that the farmer cares about it and will continue taking care of it indefinitely or that the farmer is fattening it up for slaughter? Philosophers have tried to make this heuristic principle more precise in terms of theoretical parsimony or other measures. Yet, although various measures of simplicity have been brought forward as potential candidates, it is generally accepted that there is no such thing as a theory-independent measure of simplicity. In other words, there appear to be as many different measures of simplicity as there are theories themselves, and the task of choosing between measures of simplicity appears to be every bit as problematic as the job of choosing between theories. Nicholas Maxwell has argued for some decades that unity rather than simplicity is the key non-empirical factor in influencing choice of theory in science, persistent preference for unified theories in effect committing science to the acceptance of a metaphysical thesis concerning unity in nature. In order to improve this problematic thesis, it needs to be represented in the form of a hierarchy of theses, each thesis becoming more insubstantial as one goes up the hierarchy.\n\nWhen making observations, scientists look through telescopes, study images on electronic screens, record meter readings, and so on. Generally, on a basic level, they can agree on what they see, e.g., the thermometer shows 37.9 degrees C. But, if these scientists have different ideas about the theories that have been developed to explain these basic observations, they may disagree about what they are observing. For example, before Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity, observers would have likely interpreted the image at right as five different objects in space. In light of that theory, however, astronomers will tell you that there are actually only two objects, one in the center and four different images of a second object around the sides. Alternatively, if other scientists suspect that something is wrong with the telescope and only one object is actually being observed, they are operating under yet another theory. Observations that cannot be separated from theoretical interpretation are said to be theory-laden.\n\nAll observation involves both perception and cognition. That is, one does not make an observation passively, but rather is actively engaged in distinguishing the phenomenon being observed from surrounding sensory data. Therefore, observations are affected by one's underlying understanding of the way in which the world functions, and that understanding may influence what is perceived, noticed, or deemed worthy of consideration. In this sense, it can be argued that all observation is theory-laden.\n\nShould science aim to determine ultimate truth, or are there questions that science cannot answer? \"Scientific realists\" claim that science aims at truth and that one ought to regard scientific theories as true, approximately true, or likely true. Conversely, \"scientific anti-realists\" argue that science does not aim (or at least does not succeed) at truth, especially truth about unobservables like electrons or other universes. Instrumentalists argue that scientific theories should only be evaluated on whether they are useful. In their view, whether theories are true or not is beside the point, because the purpose of science is to make predictions and enable effective technology.\n\nRealists often point to the success of recent scientific theories as evidence for the truth (or near truth) of current theories. Antirealists point to either the many false theories in the history of science, epistemic morals, the success of false modeling assumptions, or widely termed postmodern criticisms of objectivity as evidence against scientific realism. Antirealists attempt to explain the success of scientific theories without reference to truth. Some antirealists claim that scientific theories aim at being accurate only about observable objects and argue that their success is primarily judged by that criterion.\n\nValues intersect with science in different ways. There are epistemic values that mainly guide the scientific research. The scientific enterprise is embedded in particular culture and values through individual practitioners. Values emerge from science, both as product and process and can be distributed among several cultures in the society.\n\nIf it is unclear what counts as science, how the process of confirming theories works, and what the purpose of science is, there is considerable scope for values and other social influences to shape science. Indeed, values can play a role ranging from determining which research gets funded to influencing which theories achieve scientific consensus. For example, in the 19th century, cultural values held by scientists about race shaped research on evolution, and values concerning social class influenced debates on phrenology (considered scientific at the time). Feminist philosophers of science, sociologists of science, and others explore how social values affect science.\n\nThe origins of philosophy of science trace back to Plato and Aristotle who distinguished the forms of approximate and exact reasoning, set out the threefold scheme of abductive, deductive, and inductive inference, and also analyzed reasoning by analogy. The eleventh century Arab polymath Ibn al-Haytham (known in Latin as Alhazen) conducted his research in optics by way of controlled experimental testing and applied geometry, especially in his investigations into the images resulting from the reflection and refraction of light. Roger Bacon (1214–1294), an English thinker and experimenter heavily influenced by al-Haytham, is recognized by many to be the father of modern scientific method. His view that mathematics was essential to a correct understanding of natural philosophy was considered to be 400 years ahead of its time.\n\nFrancis Bacon (no direct relation to Roger, who lived 300 years earlier) was a seminal figure in philosophy of science at the time of the Scientific Revolution. In his work \"Novum Organum\" (1620) – an allusion to Aristotle's \"Organon\" – Bacon outlined a new system of logic to improve upon the old philosophical process of syllogism. Bacon's method relied on experimental \"histories\" to eliminate alternative theories. In 1637, René Descartes established a new framework for grounding scientific knowledge in his treatise, \"Discourse on Method\", advocating the central role of reason as opposed to sensory experience. By contrast, in 1713, the 2nd edition of Isaac Newton's \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" argued that \"... hypotheses ... have no place in experimental philosophy. In this philosophy[,] propositions are deduced from the phenomena and rendered general by induction. \" This passage influenced a \"later generation of philosophically-inclined readers to pronounce a ban on causal hypotheses in natural philosophy.\" In particular, later in the 18th century, David Hume would famously articulate skepticism about the ability of science to determine causality and gave a definitive formulation of the problem of induction. The 19th century writings of John Stuart Mill are also considered important in the formation of current conceptions of the scientific method, as well as anticipating later accounts of scientific explanation.\n\nInstrumentalism became popular among physicists around the turn of the 20th century, after which logical positivism defined the field for several decades. Logical positivism accepts only testable statements as meaningful, rejects metaphysical interpretations, and embraces verificationism (a set of theories of knowledge that combines logicism, empiricism, and linguistics to ground philosophy on a basis consistent with examples from the empirical sciences). Seeking to overhaul all of philosophy and convert it to a new \"scientific philosophy\", the Berlin Circle and the Vienna Circle propounded logical positivism in the late 1920s.\n\nInterpreting Ludwig Wittgenstein's early philosophy of language, logical positivists identified a verifiability principle or criterion of cognitive meaningfulness. From Bertrand Russell's logicism they sought reduction of mathematics to logic. They also embraced Russell's logical atomism, Ernst Mach's phenomenalism—whereby the mind knows only actual or potential sensory experience, which is the content of all sciences, whether physics or psychology—and Percy Bridgman's operationalism. Thereby, only the \"verifiable\" was scientific and \"cognitively meaningful\", whereas the unverifiable was unscientific, cognitively meaningless \"pseudostatements\"—metaphysical, emotive, or such—not worthy of further review by philosophers, who were newly tasked to organize knowledge rather than develop new knowledge.\n\nLogical positivism is commonly portrayed as taking the extreme position that scientific language should never refer to anything unobservable—even the seemingly core notions of causality, mechanism, and principles—but that is an exaggeration. Talk of such unobservables could be allowed as metaphorical—direct observations viewed in the abstract—or at worst metaphysical or emotional. \"Theoretical laws\" would be reduced to \"empirical laws\", while \"theoretical terms\" would garner meaning from \"observational terms\" via \"correspondence rules\". Mathematics in physics would reduce to symbolic logic via logicism, while rational reconstruction would convert ordinary language into standardized equivalents, all networked and united by a logical syntax. A scientific theory would be stated with its method of verification, whereby a logical calculus or empirical operation could verify its falsity or truth.\n\nIn the late 1930s, logical positivists fled Germany and Austria for Britain and America. By then, many had replaced Mach's phenomenalism with Otto Neurath's physicalism, and Rudolf Carnap had sought to replace \"verification\" with simply \"confirmation\". With World War II's close in 1945, logical positivism became milder, \"logical empiricism\", led largely by Carl Hempel, in America, who expounded the covering law model of scientific explanation as a way of identifying the logical form of explanations without any reference to the suspect notion of \"causation\". The logical positivist movement became a major underpinning of analytic philosophy, and dominated Anglosphere philosophy, including philosophy of science, while influencing sciences, into the 1960s. Yet the movement failed to resolve its central problems, and its doctrines were increasingly assaulted. Nevertheless, it brought about the establishment of philosophy of science as a distinct subdiscipline of philosophy, with Carl Hempel playing a key role.\n\nIn the 1962 book \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", Thomas Kuhn argued that the process of observation and evaluation takes place within a paradigm, a logically consistent \"portrait\" of the world that is consistent with observations made from its framing. A paradigm also encompasses the set of questions and practices that define a scientific discipline. He characterized \"normal science\" as the process of observation and \"puzzle solving\" which takes place within a paradigm, whereas \"revolutionary science\" occurs when one paradigm overtakes another in a paradigm shift.\n\nKuhn denied that it is ever possible to isolate the hypothesis being tested from the influence of the theory in which the observations are grounded, and he argued that it is not possible to evaluate competing paradigms independently. More than one logically consistent construct can paint a usable likeness of the world, but there is no common ground from which to pit two against each other, theory against theory. Each paradigm has its own distinct questions, aims, and interpretations. Neither provides a standard by which the other can be judged, so there is no clear way to measure scientific progress across paradigms.\n\nFor Kuhn, the choice of paradigm was sustained by rational processes, but not ultimately determined by them. The choice between paradigms involves setting two or more \"portraits\" against the world and deciding which likeness is most promising. For Kuhn, acceptance or rejection of a paradigm is a social process as much as a logical process. Kuhn's position, however, is not one of relativism. According to Kuhn, a paradigm shift occurs when a significant number of observational anomalies arise in the old paradigm and a new paradigm makes sense of them. That is, the choice of a new paradigm is based on observations, even though those observations are made against the background of the old paradigm.\n\nAll scientific study inescapably builds on at least some essential assumptions that are untested by scientific processes. Kuhn concurs that all science is based on an approved agenda of unprovable assumptions about the character of the universe, rather than merely on empirical facts. These assumptions—a paradigm—comprise a collection of beliefs, values and techniques that are held by a given scientific community, which legitimize their systems and set the limitations to their investigation. For naturalists, nature is the only reality, the only paradigm. There is no such thing as 'supernatural'. The scientific method is to be used to investigate all reality.\n\nNaturalism is the implicit philosophy of working scientists. The following basic assumptions are needed to justify the scientific method.\n\n\nIn contrast to the view that science rests on foundational assumptions, coherentism asserts that statements are justified by being a part of a coherent system. Or, rather, individual statements cannot be validated on their own: only coherent systems can be justified. A prediction of a transit of Venus is justified by its being coherent with broader beliefs about celestial mechanics and earlier observations. As explained above, observation is a cognitive act. That is, it relies on a pre-existing understanding, a systematic set of beliefs. An observation of a transit of Venus requires a huge range of auxiliary beliefs, such as those that describe the optics of telescopes, the mechanics of the telescope mount, and an understanding of celestial mechanics. If the prediction fails and a transit is not observed, that is likely to occasion an adjustment in the system, a change in some auxiliary assumption, rather than a rejection of the theoretical system.\n\nIn fact, according to the Duhem–Quine thesis, after Pierre Duhem and W. V. Quine, it is impossible to test a theory in isolation. One must always add auxiliary hypotheses in order to make testable predictions. For example, to test Newton's Law of Gravitation in the solar system, one needs information about the masses and positions of the Sun and all the planets. Famously, the failure to predict the orbit of Uranus in the 19th century led not to the rejection of Newton's Law but rather to the rejection of the hypothesis that the solar system comprises only seven planets. The investigations that followed led to the discovery of an eighth planet, Neptune. If a test fails, something is wrong. But there is a problem in figuring out what that something is: a missing planet, badly calibrated test equipment, an unsuspected curvature of space, or something else.\n\nOne consequence of the Duhem–Quine thesis is that one can make any theory compatible with any empirical observation by the addition of a sufficient number of suitable \"ad hoc\" hypotheses. Karl Popper accepted this thesis, leading him to reject naïve falsification. Instead, he favored a \"survival of the fittest\" view in which the most falsifiable scientific theories are to be preferred.\n\nPaul Feyerabend (1924–1994) argued that no description of scientific method could possibly be broad enough to include all the approaches and methods used by scientists, and that there are no useful and exception-free methodological rules governing the progress of science. He argued that \"the only principle that does not inhibit progress is: \"anything goes\"\".\n\nFeyerabend said that science started as a liberating movement, but that over time it had become increasingly dogmatic and rigid and had some oppressive features. and thus had become increasingly an ideology. Because of this, he said it was impossible to come up with an unambiguous way to distinguish science from religion, magic, or mythology. He saw the exclusive dominance of science as a means of directing society as authoritarian and ungrounded. Promulgation of this epistemological anarchism earned Feyerabend the title of \"the worst enemy of science\" from his detractors.\n\nAccording to Kuhn, science is an inherently communal activity which can only be done as part of a community. For him, the fundamental difference between science and other disciplines is the way in which the communities function. Others, especially Feyerabend and some post-modernist thinkers, have argued that there is insufficient difference between social practices in science and other disciplines to maintain this distinction. For them, social factors play an important and direct role in scientific method, but they do not serve to differentiate science from other disciplines. On this account, science is socially constructed, though this does not necessarily imply the more radical notion that reality itself is a social construct.\n\nHowever, some (such as Quine) do maintain that scientific reality is a social construct:\n\nPhysical objects are conceptually imported into the situation as convenient intermediaries not by definition in terms of experience, but simply as irreducible posits comparable, epistemologically, to the gods of Homer ... For my part I do, qua lay physicist, believe in physical objects and not in Homer's gods; and I consider it a scientific error to believe otherwise. But in point of epistemological footing, the physical objects and the gods differ only in degree and not in kind. Both sorts of entities enter our conceptions only as \"cultural posits\".\nThe public backlash of scientists against such views, particularly in the 1990s, became known as the science wars.\n\nA major development in recent decades has been the study of the formation, structure, and evolution of scientific communities by sociologists and anthropologists - including David Bloor, Harry Collins, Bruno Latour, and Anselm Strauss. Concepts and methods (such as rational choice, social choice or game theory) from economics have also been applied for understanding the efficiency of scientific communities in the production of knowledge. This interdisciplinary field has come to be known as science and technology studies.\nHere the approach to the philosophy of science is to study how scientific communities actually operate.\n\nPhilosophers in the continental philosophical tradition are not traditionally categorized as philosophers of science. However, they have much to say about science, some of which has anticipated themes in the analytical tradition. For example, Friedrich Nietzsche advanced the thesis in his \"The Genealogy of Morals\" that the motive for search of truth in sciences is a kind of ascetic ideal.\n\nIn general, science in continental philosophy is viewed from a world-historical perspective. One of the first philosophers who supported this view was Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Philosophers such as Pierre Duhem and Gaston Bachelard also wrote their works with this world-historical approach to science, predating Kuhn by a generation or more. All of these approaches involve a historical and sociological turn to science, with a priority on lived experience (a kind of Husserlian \"life-world\"), rather than a progress-based or anti-historical approach as done in the analytic tradition. This emphasis can be traced through Edmund Husserl's phenomenology, the late works of Merleau-Ponty (\"Nature: Course Notes from the Collège de France\", 1956–1960), and Martin Heidegger's hermeneutics.\n\nThe largest effect on the continental tradition with respect to science was Martin Heidegger's critique of the theoretical attitude in general which of course includes the scientific attitude. For this reason the continental tradition has remained much more skeptical of the importance of science in human life and philosophical inquiry. Nonetheless, there have been a number of important works: especially a Kuhnian precursor, Alexandre Koyré. Another important development was that of Michel Foucault's analysis of the historical and scientific thought in \"The Order of Things\" and his study of power and corruption within the \"science\" of madness. Post-Heideggerian authors contributing to the continental philosophy of science in the second half of the 20th century include Jürgen Habermas (e.g., \"Truth and Justification\", 1998), Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker (\"The Unity of Nature\", 1980), and Wolfgang Stegmüller (\"Probleme und Resultate der Wissenschafttheorie und Analytischen Philosophie\", 1973–1986).\n\nAnalysis is the activity of breaking an observation or theory down into simpler concepts in order to understand it. Reductionism can refer to one of several philosophical positions related to this approach. One type of reductionism is the belief that all fields of study are ultimately amenable to scientific explanation. Perhaps a historical event might be explained in sociological and psychological terms, which in turn might be described in terms of human physiology, which in turn might be described in terms of chemistry and physics. Daniel Dennett distinguishes legitimate reductionism from what he calls \"greedy reductionism,\" which denies real complexities and leaps too quickly to sweeping generalizations.\n\nA broad issue affecting the neutrality of science concerns the areas which science chooses to explore, that is, what part of the world and man is studied by science. Philip Kitcher in his \"Science, Truth, and Democracy\" argues that scientific studies that attempt to show one segment of the population as being less intelligent, successful or emotionally backward compared to others have a political feedback effect which further excludes such groups from access to science. Thus such studies undermine the broad consensus required for good science by excluding certain people, and so proving themselves in the end to be unscientific.\n\nIn addition to addressing the general questions regarding science and induction, many philosophers of science are occupied by investigating foundational problems in particular sciences. They also examine the implications of particular sciences for broader philosophical questions. The late 20th and early 21st century has seen a rise in the number of practitioners of philosophy of a particular science.\n\nThe problem of induction discussed above is seen in another form in debates over the foundations of statistics. The standard approach to statistical hypothesis testing avoids claims about whether evidence supports a hypothesis or makes it more probable. Instead, the typical test yields a p-value, which is the probability of the \"evidence\" being such as it is, under the assumption that the hypothesis being tested is true. If the \"p\"-value is too low, the hypothesis is rejected, in a way analogous to falsification. In contrast, Bayesian inference seeks to assign probabilities to hypotheses. Related topics in philosophy of statistics include probability interpretations, overfitting, and the difference between correlation and causation.\n\nPhilosophy of mathematics is concerned with the philosophical foundations and implications of mathematics. The central questions are whether numbers, triangles, and other mathematical entities exist independently of the human mind and what is the nature of mathematical propositions. Is asking whether \"1+1=2\" is true fundamentally different from asking whether a ball is red? Was calculus invented or discovered? A related question is whether learning mathematics requires experience or reason alone. What does it mean to prove a mathematical theorem and how does one know whether a mathematical proof is correct? Philosophers of mathematics also aim to clarify the relationships between mathematics and logic, human capabilities such as intuition, and the material universe.\n\nPhilosophy of physics is the study of the fundamental, philosophical questions underlying modern physics, the study of matter and energy and how they interact. The main questions concern the nature of space and time, atoms and atomism. Also included are the predictions of cosmology, the interpretation of quantum mechanics, the foundations of statistical mechanics, causality, determinism, and the nature of physical laws. Classically, several of these questions were studied as part of metaphysics (for example, those about causality, determinism, and space and time).\n\nPhilosophy of chemistry is the philosophical study of the methodology and content of the science of chemistry. It is explored by philosophers, chemists, and philosopher-chemist teams. It includes research on general philosophy of science issues as applied to chemistry. For example, can all chemical phenomena be explained by quantum mechanics or is it not possible to reduce chemistry to physics? For another example, chemists have discussed the philosophy of how theories are confirmed in the context of confirming reaction mechanisms. Determining reaction mechanisms is difficult because they cannot be observed directly. Chemists can use a number of indirect measures as evidence to rule out certain mechanisms, but they are often unsure if the remaining mechanism is correct because there are many other possible mechanisms that they have not tested or even thought of. Philosophers have also sought to clarify the meaning of chemical concepts which do not refer to specific physical entities, such as chemical bonds.\n\nThe philosophy of Earth science is concerned with how humans obtain and verify knowledge of the workings of the Earth system, including the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and geosphere (solid earth). Earth scientists’ ways of knowing and habits of mind share important commonalities with other sciences but also have distinctive attributes that emerge from the complex, heterogeneous, unique, long-lived, and non-manipulatable nature of the Earth system.\n\nPhilosophy of biology deals with epistemological, metaphysical, and ethical issues in the biological and biomedical sciences. Although philosophers of science and philosophers generally have long been interested in biology (e.g., Aristotle, Descartes, Leibniz and even Kant), philosophy of biology only emerged as an independent field of philosophy in the 1960s and 1970s. Philosophers of science began to pay increasing attention to developments in biology, from the rise of the modern synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s to the discovery of the structure of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in 1953 to more recent advances in genetic engineering. Other key ideas such as the reduction of all life processes to biochemical reactions as well as the incorporation of psychology into a broader neuroscience are also addressed. Research in current philosophy of biology includes investigation of the foundations of evolutionary theory (such as Peter Godfrey-Smith's work), and the role of viruses as persistent symbionts in host genomes. As a consequence the evolution of genetic content order is seen as the result of competent genome editors in contrast to former narratives in which error replication events (mutations) dominated.\nBeyond medical ethics and bioethics, the philosophy of medicine is a branch of philosophy that includes the epistemology and ontology/metaphysics of medicine. Within the epistemology of medicine, evidence-based medicine (EBM) (or evidence-based practice (EBP)) has attracted attention, most notably the roles of randomisation, blinding and placebo controls. Related to these areas of investigation, ontologies of specific interest to the philosophy of medicine include Cartesian dualism, the monogenetic conception of disease and the conceptualization of 'placebos' and 'placebo effects'. There is also a growing interest in the metaphysics of medicine, particularly the idea of causation. Philosophers of medicine might not only be interested in how medical knowledge is generated, but also in the nature of such phenomena. Causation is of interest because the purpose of much medical research is to establish causal relationships, e.g. what causes disease, or what causes people to get better.\n\nPhilosophy of psychology refers to issues at the theoretical foundations of modern psychology. Some of these issues are epistemological concerns about the methodology of psychological investigation. For example, is the best method for studying psychology to focus only on the response of behavior to external stimuli or should psychologists focus on mental perception and thought processes? If the latter, an important question is how the internal experiences of others can be measured. Self-reports of feelings and beliefs may not be reliable because, even in cases in which there is no apparent incentive for subjects to intentionally deceive in their answers, self-deception or selective memory may affect their responses. Then even in the case of accurate self-reports, how can responses be compared across individuals? Even if two individuals respond with the same answer on a Likert scale, they may be experiencing very different things.\n\nOther issues in philosophy of psychology are philosophical questions about the nature of mind, brain, and cognition, and are perhaps more commonly thought of as part of cognitive science, or philosophy of mind. For example, are humans rational creatures? Is there any sense in which they have free will, and how does that relate to the experience of making choices? Philosophy of psychology also closely monitors contemporary work conducted in cognitive neuroscience, evolutionary psychology, and artificial intelligence, questioning what they can and cannot explain in psychology.\n\nPhilosophy of psychology is a relatively young field, because psychology only became a discipline of its own in the late 1800s. In particular, neurophilosophy has just recently become its own field with the works of Paul Churchland and Patricia Churchland. Philosophy of mind, by contrast, has been a well-established discipline since before psychology was a field of study at all. It is concerned with questions about the very nature of mind, the qualities of experience, and particular issues like the debate between dualism and monism. Another related field is philosophy of language.\n\nA notable recent development in Philosophy of Psychology is Functional Contextualism or Contextual Behavioural Science (CBS). Functional Contextualism is a modern philosophy of science rooted in philosophical pragmatism and contextualism. It is most actively developed in behavioral science in general, the field of behavior analysis, and contextual behavioral science in particular (see the entry for the Association for Contextual Behavioral Science). Functional contextualism serves as the basis of a theory of language known as relational frame theory and its most prominent application, acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT). It is an extension and contextualistic interpretation of B.F. Skinner's radical behaviorism first delineated by Steven C. Hayes which emphasizes the importance of predicting and influencing psychological events (including thoughts, feelings, and behaviors) with precision, scope, and depth, by focusing on manipulable variables in their context.\n\nPhilosophy of psychiatry explores philosophical questions relating to psychiatry and mental illness. The philosopher of science and medicine Dominic Murphy identifies three areas of exploration in the philosophy of psychiatry. The first concerns the examination of psychiatry as a science, using the tools of the philosophy of science more broadly. The second entails the examination of the concepts employed in discussion of mental illness, including the experience of mental illness, and the normative questions it raises. The third area concerns the links and discontinuities between the philosophy of mind and psychopathology.\n\nPhilosophy of economics is the branch of philosophy which studies philosophical issues relating to economics. It can also be defined as the branch of economics which studies its own foundations and morality. It can be categorized into three central topics. The first concerns the definition and scope of economics and by what methods it should be studied and whether these methods rise to the level of epistemic reliability associated with the other special sciences. For example, is it possible to research economics in such a way that it is value-free, establishing facts that are independent of the normative views of the researcher? The second topic is the meaning and implications of rationality. For example, can buying lottery tickets (increasing the riskiness of your income) at the same time as buying insurance (decreasing the riskiness of your income) be rational? The third topic is the normative evaluation of economic policies and outcomes. What criteria should be used to determine whether a given public policy is beneficial for society?\n\nThe philosophy of social science is the study of the logic and method of the social sciences, such as sociology, anthropology, and political science. Philosophers of social science are concerned with the differences and similarities between the social and the natural sciences, causal relationships between social phenomena, the possible existence of social laws, and the ontological significance of structure and agency.\n\nThe French philosopher, Auguste Comte (1798–1857), established the epistemological perspective of positivism in \"The Course in Positivist Philosophy\", a series of texts published between 1830 and 1842. The first three volumes of the \"Course\" dealt chiefly with the physical sciences already in existence (mathematics, astronomy, physics, chemistry, biology), whereas the latter two emphasised the inevitable coming of social science: \"sociologie\". For Comte, the physical sciences had necessarily to arrive first, before humanity could adequately channel its efforts into the most challenging and complex \"Queen science\" of human society itself. Comte offers an evolutionary system proposing that society undergoes three phases in its quest for the truth according to a general 'law of three stages'. These are (1) the \"theological\", (2) the \"metaphysical\", and (3) the \"positive\".\n\nComte's positivism established the initial philosophical foundations for formal sociology and social research. Durkheim, Marx, and Weber are more typically cited as the fathers of contemporary social science. In psychology, a positivistic approach has historically been favoured in behaviourism. Positivism has also been espoused by 'technocrats' who believe in the inevitability of social progress through science and technology.\n\nThe positivist perspective has been associated with 'scientism'; the view that the methods of the natural sciences may be applied to all areas of investigation, be it philosophical, social scientific, or otherwise. Among most social scientists and historians, orthodox positivism has long since lost popular support. Today, practitioners of both social and physical sciences instead take into account the distorting effect of observer bias and structural limitations. This scepticism has been facilitated by a general weakening of deductivist accounts of science by philosophers such as Thomas Kuhn, and new philosophical movements such as critical realism and neopragmatism. The philosopher-sociologist Jürgen Habermas has critiqued pure instrumental rationality as meaning that scientific-thinking becomes something akin to ideology itself.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2621705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2621705", "title": "Program on Negotiation", "text": "Program on Negotiation\n\nThe Program on Negotiation (PON) is a university consortium dedicated to developing the theory and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution. As a community of scholars and practitioners, PON serves a unique role in the world negotiation community. Founded in 1983 as a special research project at Harvard Law School, PON includes faculty, students, and staff from Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Tufts University.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation publishes the quarterly \"Negotiation Journal\" and the monthly \"Negotiation Briefings\" newsletter, and distributes the annual \"Harvard Negotiation Law Review\". Throughout the year PON offers a number of courses and training opportunities ranging in length from one day to an entire semester.\n\nIn 1979, co-authors of the bestseller \"Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement without Giving In\", Roger Fisher and William Ury, along with Bruce Patton founded the Harvard Negotiation Project (HNP), with a mission to improve the theory, teaching, and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution, so that people could deal more constructively with conflicts ranging from the interpersonal to the international. Fisher began by asking the question of what kind of advice could be given to both sides of a dispute, and in researching this question he came in contact with various professors, including James Sebenius, Lawrence Susskind, Frank Sander, and Howard Raiffa, who collaborated to form the Program on Negotiation.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation was founded in 1983 as the world's first teaching and research center dedicated to negotiation and dispute resolution. As an umbrella organization with founding members from both Harvard and MIT, it soon expanded to include Tufts University as one of its consortium schools. Since the beginning, the Program on Negotiation has been multi-disciplinary, with scholars from economics, government, law, business, psychology, anthropology, education, and the arts. Faculty have focused on a wide range of research topics, including deal-making, diplomatic negotiations, international negotiations, psychological aspects of negotiations, decision-making, issues relating to ethics and trust, and labor negotiations.\n\nChair of the Program on Negotiation since 1994, Professor Robert H. Mnookin is Samuel Williston Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. Among his recent publications are the books, \"Beyond Winning: Negotiating to Create Value in Deals and Disputes\", and \"Bargaining with the Devil: When to Negotiate, When to Fight\".\n\nThe Program on Negotiation is responsible for multiple publications, including books, special reports, the \"Negotiation Briefings\" newsletter and the quarterly \"Negotiation Journal\", a multidisciplinary international journal published by Wiley-Blackwell detailing the latest advances in the field. PON also regularly produces free reports that are available through their website, such as: \"Teaching Negotiation: Understanding The Impact Of Role-Play Simulations\", \"Business Negotiation Strategies: How to Negotiate Better Business Deals\", \"Negotiation Skills: Negotiation Strategies and Negotiation Techniques to Help You Become a Better Negotiator\", \"Dealmaking: Secrets of Successful Dealmaking in Business Negotiations\", \"Negotiation Strategies for Women: Secrets to Success\", \"Dealing with Difficult People\", \"BATNA Basics: Boost Your Power at the Bargaining Table\", \"Sally Soprano: Role-Play Simulation\", \"Harborco: Role-Play Simulation\", and \"Win-Win or Hardball: Learn Top Strategies from Sports Contract Negotiations\". All of PONs publications including books, case studies, and DVDs can be obtained through the PON Clearinghouse.\n\nPON offers a number of training programs throughout the year on a variety of topics including negotiation, mediation, conflict resolution, deal design, difficult conversations, and many more. PON seminars and courses are open to the public.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation offers one day Author Sessions focused on recent book publications by PON faculty members as part of its Executive Education Series. Recent courses included: Deal-Making and Negotiauctions, Creating a World-class Negotiating Organization, Bargaining with the Devil, and Negotiating International Deals.\n\nExecutive Education courses last for three days, covering strategies for business leaders to handle both successful day-to-day management and long-term strategies for healthy workplace environments. Executives learn tactics for dealing with dirty tricks, threats, attacks, and stonewalls from the other side of the table.\n\nHarvard Negotiation Institute (HNI) classes are offered every June and September on the Harvard Law School campus and cover a broad range of negotiation and mediation skills, ranging from beginning to advanced techniques. Most of the courses offered are five-day classes. However, a 2-day Intensive Negotiation Workshop for Lawyers and Working Professionals is also offered. Recent course offerings included: a mediation workshop, Creating Value in Deals and Disputes, Tools for Preparing and Negotiating Effectively, Deal Design and Implementation, and Difficult Conversations.\n\nOpen to participants from all disciplines and professional fields, the PON Seminars provide negotiation and mediation courses to the community. These semester-length courses are designed to increase public awareness and understanding of successful conflict resolution efforts.\n\nTwo courses are taught each year: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the fall, and Mediation and Conflict Management in the spring. Both courses provide participants with a conceptual framework and practical advice for professional and personal development in dispute resolution. Faculty is drawn from the PON community of scholars and practitioners of alternative dispute resolution.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation also hosts a variety of smaller workshops and intensive two-day courses in addition to their normal course offerings, including on-site training.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation established the Great Negotiator Award in 2000 to honor individuals of extraordinary achievement in dispute resolution. The award is designed not only to honor the accomplishments of outstanding negotiators, but also to focus public attention on the important role of negotiation as society faces increasingly complex disputes in all sectors–public and private, technological and ethical, personal and professional. PON has recognized a diverse cast of distinguished negotiators from their respective fields: Juan Manuel Santos, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and President of Colombia (2017); Martti Ahtisaari, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and former President of Finland (2010); Christo and Jeanne-Claude, the artists who created The Gates in Central Park (2008); Bruce Wasserstein, Chairman and CEO of Lazard, an international financial advisory and asset management firm (2007); Sadako Ogata, former United Nations high commissioner for refugees (2005); Richard Holbrooke, former United States ambassador to the United Nations (2004); Stuart Eizenstat, former U.S. ambassador to the European Union (2003); Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations’ special envoy for Afghanistan (2002); Charlene Barshefsky, U.S. trade representative in the second Clinton administration (2001); and former U.S. Senator George Mitchell for his work in Northern Ireland (2000).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10612829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10612829", "title": "Public anthropology", "text": "Public anthropology\n\nPublic anthropology, according to Robert Borofsky, a professor at Hawaii Pacific University, \"demonstrates the ability of anthropology and anthropologists to effectively address problems beyond the discipline - illuminating larger social issues of our times as well as encouraging broad, public conversations about them with the explicit goal of fostering social change\" (Borofsky 2004).\n\nMerrill Singer has criticized the concept of public anthropology on the grounds that it ignores applied anthropology. He writes: \"given that many applied anthropologists already do the kinds of things that are now being described as PA, it is hard to understand why a new label is needed, except as a device for distancing public anthropologists from applied anthropologists\" (Singer 2000: 6). Similarly, Barbara Rylko-Bauer writes: \"one has to ask what is the purpose of these emerging labels that consciously distinguish themselves from applied/practicing anthropology? While they may serve the personal interests of those who develop them, it is hard to see how they serve the broader interests of the discipline\" (Rylko-Bauer 2000: 6). Eric Haanstad responds to Singer's claim by arguing that public anthropology does not necessarily entail the exclusion of applied anthropology (Haanstad 2001a). Alan Jeffery Fields defends the concept of public anthropology by claiming it is \"a useful trope for one important reason: it calls attention to the fact that there is a division between public and academic perceptions\" (Fields 2001a).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1721247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1721247", "title": "Public infrastructure", "text": "Public infrastructure\n\nPublic infrastructure is infrastructure that is owned by the public or is for public use. It is generally distinguishable from private or generic infrastructure in terms of policy, financing, purpose.\n\nPublic infrastructure is a general term often qualified specifically as:\n\n"}
{"id": "2103140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103140", "title": "Public value", "text": "Public value\n\nPublic value describes the value that an organization contributes to society. The term was originally coined by Harvard professor Mark H. Moore who saw it as the equivalent of shareholder value in public management. Public value is supposed to provide managers with a notion of how entrepreneurial activity can contribute to the common good. Nowadays, public value is no longer limited to the public sector, but is used by all types of organization, including non-governmental organizations and private sector firms. Therefore, the public value researcher Timo Meynhardt from the University of St. Gallen and HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management uses the term to generally raise the question about organizations' contribution to the common good. He believes that current management concepts, such as shareholder value, stakeholder value, customer value, sustainability or corporate social responsibility, should legitimize themselves in regard to their impact on the common good.\n\nIn his (social-)psychological-based concept, public value emerges for individuals from the experiences made in social structures and relationships. Hence, it can be seen as a prerequisite and a resource for successful living.\n\n\"Public values are those providing normative consensus about (1) the rights, benefits, and prerogatives to which citizens should (and should not) be entitled; (2) the obligations of citizens to society, the state and one another; and (3) the principles on which governments and policies should be based.\" Bozeman, 2007\n\n\"Public value is value for the public. Value for the public is a result of evaluations about how basic needs of individuals, groups and the society as a whole are influenced in relationships involving the public. Public value then is also value from the public, i.e., “drawn” from the experience of the public. The public is an indispensable operational fiction of society. Any impact on shared experience about the quality of the relationship between the individual and society can be described as public value creation. Public value creation is situated in relationships between the individual and society, founded in individuals, constituted by subjective evaluations against basic needs, activated by and realized in emotional-motivational states, and produced and reproduced in experience-intense practices.\" Meynhardt, 2009\n\n\"The definition that remains equates managerial success in the public sector with initiating and reshaping public sector enterprises in ways that increase their value to the public in both the short and the long run.\" Moore, 1995\n\n\"Public Value (or Public Value Capital) then is the combined view of the public about what they regard as valuable.\" Talbot, 2006\n\nThe research program on public value was kicked off by Professor Mark H. Moore of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, who published a book on the subject, \"Creating Public Value. Strategic Management in Government\", in 1995. In this sense, public value can be instituted as an organising principle in a public sector organisation, providing a focus in the context of which individual employees are free to pursue and propose new ideas about how to improve the working of the organisation, in terms of efficiency or services. Public organisations seeking to use public value as a principle need to create a corporate culture in which the pursuit of public values by employees is rewarded just as pursuing shareholder value is rewarded in private corporations. \n\nThe concept has been taken up initially by academics, think tanks and NGOs, and later by a number of public sector organisations in the United Kingdom and other countries.\n\nIn 2004 it was used by the BBC as the cornerstone of its manifesto for the renewal of its charter.\n\nIn 2006 Accenture launched the Institute for Public Service Value (IPSV), to explore how public value is created in government organizations. Greg Parston, co-founder and former Chief Executive of the Office for Public Management, and a collaborator with Professor Moore, was appointed Director. Among many other studies, IPSV conducted the Global Cities Forum in 2007-2009, which facilitated citizens' deliberations on their experiences and expectations of public value in 17 cities around the world. \n\nIn 2006, the Center for Technology in Government (CTG) in partnership with SAP AG, conducted research on the topic of public value in the context of governments' investments in information technology (IT). The results of this research found that governments' ability to realize the full value of IT investments is not completely measurable in terms of financial results. More specifically, the five U.S. and international governments studied, looked for the full value of government IT investments in both the internal value to government operations and the broader political and social returns to the public at large.\n\nFrom this point of view, there are two sources of public value: \nIn November 2006, UK-based The Work Foundation published a report on their project, titled \"Deliberative democracy and the role of public managers\"\",\" followed in October 2008 by \"Public Value: The Next Steps in Public Service Reform\" \n\nThe German Federal Employment Agency uses the public value concept to better understand its contribution to society that goes beyond simple task fulfillment and make it a yardstick for management decisions. An empirical study has shown that a particular value of this organization is seen in its contribution to social peace in Germany.\n\nPublic value is also taken up by private sector companies that want to maintain a license to operate and understand what implications new strategies and projects might have in terms of public value creation/ destruction. Such analyses can be done using a Public Value Scorecard as proposed by Timo Meynhardt and Peter Gomez. Public value acknowledges that established business paradigms such as customer value or stakeholder value risk overemphasizing certain aspects of business' value contribution to society at the expense of other important dimensions. It pledges for a redefinition of the entire notion of value creation as it takes utilitarian and hedonistic as well as political and moral aspects of value creation into account.\n\nA number of firms use public value to obtain management information helping to take strategic decisions. Examples include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "106004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106004", "title": "Sex and sexuality in speculative fiction", "text": "Sex and sexuality in speculative fiction\n\nSexual themes are frequently used in science fiction or related genres. Such elements may include depictions of realistic sexual interactions in a science fictional setting, a protagonist with an alternative sexuality, or exploration of the varieties of sexual experience that deviate from the conventional.\n\nScience fiction and fantasy have sometimes been more constrained than non-genre narrative forms in their depictions of sexuality and gender. However, speculative fiction also offers the freedom to imagine societies different from real-life cultures, making it an incisive tool to examine sexual bias and forcing the reader to reconsider his or her cultural assumptions.\n\nPrior to the 1960s, explicit sexuality of any kind was not characteristic of genre speculative fiction due to the relatively high number of minors in the target audience. In the 1960s, science fiction and fantasy began to reflect the changes prompted by the civil rights movement and the emergence of a counterculture. New Wave and feminist science fiction authors imagined cultures in which a variety of gender models and atypical sexual relationships are the norm, and depictions of sex acts and alternative sexualities became commonplace.\n\nThere also exists , which explores sexuality and the presentation of themes aimed at inducing arousal.\n\nAs genres of popular literature, science fiction and fantasy often seem even more constrained than non-genre literature by their conventions of characterization and the effects that these conventions have on depictions of sexuality and gender. Sex is often linked to disgust in science fiction and horror, and plots based on sexual relationships have mainly been avoided in genre fantasy narratives. On the other hand, science fiction and fantasy can also offer more freedom than do non-genre literatures to imagine alternatives to the default assumptions of heterosexuality and masculine superiority that permeate many cultures.\n\nIn speculative fiction, extrapolation allows writers to focus not on the way things are (or were), as non-genre literature does, but on the way things could be different. It provides science fiction with a quality that Darko Suvin has called \"cognitive estrangement\": the recognition that what we are reading is not the world as we know it, but a world whose difference forces us to reconsider our own world with an outsider's perspective. When the extrapolation involves sexuality or gender, it can force the reader to reconsider their heteronormative cultural assumptions; the freedom to imagine societies different from real-life cultures makes science fiction an incisive tool to examine sexual bias. In science fiction, such estranging features include technologies that significantly alter sex or reproduction. In fantasy, such features include figures (for example, mythological deities and heroic archetypes) who are not limited by preconceptions of human sexuality and gender, allowing them to be reinterpreted. Science fiction has also depicted a plethora of alien methods of reproduction and sex.\n\n\"Uranian Worlds\", by Eric Garber and Lyn Paleo, is an authoritative guide to science fiction literature featuring gay, lesbian, transgender, and related themes. The book covers science fiction literature published before 1990 (2nd edition), providing a short review and commentary on each piece.\n\nSome of the themes explored in speculative fiction include:\n\n\"True History,\" a Greek-language tale by Assyrian writer Lucian (120-185 CE), has been called the first ever science fiction story. The narrator is suddenly enveloped by a typhoon and swept up to the Moon, which is inhabited by a society of men who are at war with the Sun. After the hero distinguishes himself in combat, the king gives him his son, the prince, in marriage. The all-male society reproduces (male children only) by giving birth from the thigh or by growing a child from a plant produced by planting the left testicle in the Moon's soil.\n\nIn other proto-SF works, sex itself, of any type, was equated with base desires or \"beastliness,\" as in \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726), which contrasts the animalistic and overtly sexual Yahoos with the reserved and intelligent Houyhnhnms. Early works that showed sexually open characters to be morally impure include the first lesbian vampire story \"Carmilla\" (1872) by Sheridan Le Fanu (collected in \"In a Glass Darkly\").\n\nThe 1915 utopian novel \"Herland\" by Charlotte Perkins Gilman depicts the visit by three men to an all-female society in which women reproduce by parthenogenesis.\n\nDuring the pulp era, explicit sexuality of any kind was not characteristic of genre science fiction and fantasy. The frank treatment of sexual topics of earlier literature was abandoned. For many years, the editors who controlled what was published, such as Kay Tarrant, assistant editor of \"Astounding Science Fiction\", felt that they had to protect the adolescent male readership that they identified as their principal market. Although the covers of some 1930s pulp magazines showed scantily clad women menaced by tentacled aliens, the covers were often more lurid than the magazines' contents. Implied or disguised sexuality was as important as that which was openly revealed. In this sense, genre science fiction reflected the social mores of the day, paralleling common prejudices. This was particularly true of pulp fiction, more so than literary works of the time.\n\nIn Aldous Huxley's dystopian novel \"Brave New World\" (1932), natural reproduction has been abolished, with human embryos being raised artificially in \"hatcheries and conditioning centres.\" Recreational sex is promoted, often as a group activity, and marriage, pregnancy, natural birth, and parenthood are considered too vulgar to be mentioned in polite conversation.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of genre science fiction that involves a challenging amount of unconventional sexual activity is \"Odd John\" (1935) by Olaf Stapledon. John is a mutant with extraordinary mental abilities who will not allow himself to be bound by many of the rules imposed by the ordinary British society of his time. The novel strongly implies that he has consensual intercourse with his mother and that he seduces an older boy who becomes devoted to him but also suffers from the affront that the relationship creates to his own morals. John eventually concludes that any sexual interaction with \"normal\" humans is akin to bestiality.\n\n\"War with the Newts\", a 1936 satirical science fiction novel by Czech author Karel Čapek, concerns the discovery in the Pacific of a sea-dwelling race, an intelligent breed of newts - who are initially enslaved and exploited by humans and later rebel and go war against them. The book includes a detailed appendix entitled 'The Sex Life of the Newts', which examines the Newts' sexuality and reproductive processes in a pastiche of academese. This is one of the first attempts to speculate on what form sex might have among non-human intelligent beings.\n\nAs the readership for science fiction and fantasy began to age in the 1950s, writers were able to introduce more explicit sexuality into their work.\n\nPhilip José Farmer wrote \"The Lovers\" (1952), arguably the first science fiction story to feature sex as a major theme, and \"Strange Relations\" (1960), a collection of five stories about human/alien sexual relations. In his novel \"Flesh\" (1960), a hypermasculine antlered man ritually impregnates legions of virgins in order to counter declining male fertility.\n\nTheodore Sturgeon wrote many stories that emphasised the importance of love regardless of the current social norms, such as \"The World Well Lost\" (1953), a classic tale involving alien homosexuality, and the novel \"Venus Plus X\" (1960), in which a contemporary man awakens in a futuristic place where the people are hermaphrodites.\n\nRobert A. Heinlein's time-travel short story \"All You Zombies\" (1959) chronicles a young man (later revealed to be intersex) taken back in time and tricked into impregnating his younger, female self before he underwent a sex change. He then turns out to be the offspring of that union, with the paradoxical result that he is both his own mother and father.\n\nWhen Heinlein's \"The Puppet Masters\" was originally published, it was censored by the publisher to remove various references to sex. The opening scene, where the protagonist is called urgently to HQ on an early morning hour, was re-written to remove all mention of his being in bed with a girl he had casually picked up. The published version did mention that the book's alien invaders cause human beings whose bodies they take over to lose sexual feeling - but removed a later section mentioning that after some time on Earth the invaders \"discovered sex\" and started engaging in wild orgies and even broadcasting them on TV in areas under their control. Thirty years later, with changing mores, Heinlein published the book's full, unexpurgated text. \n\nIn \"Time Enough for Love\" (1973), Heinlein's recurring protagonist Lazarus Long - who never grows old and has an extremely long and eventful life - travels backward in time to the period of his own childhood. As an unintentional result, he falls in love with his own mother. He has no guilt feeling about pursuing and eventually consummating that relationship - considering her simply as an extremely attractive young woman named Maureen who just happens to have given birth to him thousands of years ago (as far as his personal timeline is concerned). The sequel,\"To Sail Beyond the Sunset\" takes place after Maureen had discovered the true identity of her lover - and shows that for her part, she was more amused than shocked or angry. \nPoul Anderson's 1958 novel \"War of the Wing-Men\", centers on a species of winged intelligent creatures and sexual differencws are central to its plot. Of the two mutually-hostile societies featured in the book, one practices monogamous marriage, while in the other there are every spring several days of a wild indiscriminate orgy - and a complete celibacy for the rest of the year. Ironically, both societies alike consider themselves chaste and the other depraved: \"We keep faithful to our mates while they fuck around indiscriminately - disgusting!\" ; \"We keep sex where it belongs, to one week per year where you are not really yourself. They do it all over the year- disgusting!\". Humans who land on the planet intervene in the centuries-long war, by showing members of the two societies that they are not all that different from each other.\n\nAnother Poul Anderson novel of the same period, \"Virgin Planet\" (1959), deals in a straightforward manner with homosexuality and polyamory on an exclusively female world. The plot twist is that the protagonist is the only male on a world of women, and though quite a few of them are interested in sex with him, it is never consummated during his sojourn on the planet.\n\nA mirror image was presented by A. Bertram Chandler in \"Spartan Planet\" (1969), featuring an exclusively male world, where by definition homosexual relations are the normal (and only) sexual relations. The plot revolves around the explosive social upheaval resulting when the planet is discovered by a spaceship from the wider galaxy, whose crew includes both men and women. \n\nUntil the late 1960s, few other writers depicted alternative sexuality or revised gender roles, nor openly investigated sexual questions.\n\nMore conventionally, A. Bertram Chandler's books include numerous episodes of free fall sex, his characters (male and female alike) strongly prone to extramarital relations and tending to while away the boring months-long Deep Space voyages by forming complicated love triangles.\n\nBy the late 1960s, science fiction and fantasy began to reflect the changes prompted by the civil rights movement and the emergence of a counterculture. Within the genres, these changes were incorporated into a movement called \"the New Wave,\" a movement more skeptical of technology, more liberated socially, and more interested in stylistic experimentation. New Wave writers were more likely to claim an interest in \"inner space\" instead of outer space. They were less shy about explicit sexuality and more sympathetic to reconsiderations of gender roles and the social status of sexual minorities. Notable authors who often wrote on sexual themes included Joanna Russ, Thomas M. Disch, John Varley, James Tiptree, Jr., and Samuel R. Delany. Under the influence of New Wave editors and authors such as Michael Moorcock (editor of the influential \"New Worlds\" magazine) and Ursula K. Le Guin, sympathetic depictions of alternative sexuality and gender multiplied in science fiction and fantasy, becoming commonplace.\n\nRobert A. Heinlein's \"Stranger in a Strange Land\" (1961) and \"The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress\" (1966) both depict heterosexual group marriages and public nudity as desirable social norms, while in Heinlein's \"Time Enough for Love\" (1973), the main character argues strongly for the future liberty of homosexual sex. Heinlein's character Lazarus Long, travelling back in time to the period of his own childhood, discovers, to his surprise and (initial) shame, a sexual desire of his own mother - but overcoming this initial shame, he comes to think of her simply as \"Maureen\", an attractive young woman who is far from indifferent to him. \n\nSamuel R. Delany's Nebula Award-winning short story \"Aye, and Gomorrah\" (1967) posits the development of neutered human astronauts, and then depicts the people who become sexually oriented toward them. By imagining a new gender and resultant sexual orientation, the story allows readers to reflect on the real world while maintaining an estranging distance. In his 1975 science fiction novel entitled \"Dhalgren\", Delany colors his large canvas with characters of a wide variety of sexualities. Once again, sex is not the focus of the novel, although it does contain some of the first explicitly described scenes of gay sex in science fiction. Delany depicts, mostly with affection, characters with a wide variety of motivations and behaviours, with the effect of revealing to the reader the fact that these kinds of people exist in the real world. In later works, Delany blurs the line between science fiction and gay pornography. Delany faced resistance from book distribution companies for his treatment of these topics.\n\nUrsula K. Le Guin explores radically alternative forms of sexuality in \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" (1969) and again in \"Coming of Age in Karhide\" (1995), which imagine the sexuality of an alien \"human\" species in which individuals are neither \"male\" nor \"female,\" but undergo a monthly sexual cycle in which they randomly experience the activation of either male or female sexual organs and reproductive abilities; this makes them in a sense bisexual, and in other senses androgynous or hermaphroditic. It is common for an individual of that species to undergo at some moment of life pregnancy and birth-giving. while at another time having the male role and impregnating somebody else. Le Guin has written considerations of her own work in two essays, \"Is Gender Necessary?\" (1976) and \"Is Gender Necessary? Redux\" (1986), which respond to feminist and other criticism of \"The Left Hand of Darkness\". In these essays, she makes it clear that the novel's assumption that Gethenians would automatically find a mate of the gender opposite to the gender they were becoming produced an unintended heteronormativity. Le Guin has subsequently written many stories that examine the possibilities science fiction allows for non-traditional sexuality, such as the sexual bonding between clones in \"Nine Lives\" (1968) and the four-way marriages in \"Mountain Ways\" (1996).\n\nIn his 1972 novel \"The Gods Themselves\", Isaac Asimov describes an alien race with three genders, all of them necessary for sexual reproduction. One gender produces a form of sperm, another gender provides the energy needed for reproduction, and members of the third gender bear and raise the offspring. All three genders are included in sexual and social norms of expected and acceptable behavior. In this same novel, the hazards and problems of sex in microgravity are described, and while people born on the Moon are proficient at it, people from Earth are not.\n\nSimilarly, Poul Anderson's \"Three Worlds to Conquer\" depicts centaur-like beings living on Jupiter who have three genders: female, male and \"demi-male\". In order to conceive, a female must have sex with both a male and a demi-male within a short time of each other. In the society of the protagonist, there are stable, harmonious three-way families, in effect a formalized Menage a Trois, with the three partners on equal terms with each other. An individual in that society feels a strong attachment to all three parents - mother, father and demi-father - who all take part in bringing up the young. Conversely, among the harsh invaders who threaten to destroy the protagonist's homeland and culture, males are totally dominant over both females and demi-males; the latter are either killed at birth or preserved in subjugation for reproduction - which the protagonist regards as a barbaric aberration. \n\nFeminist science fiction authors imagined cultures in which homo- and bisexuality and a variety of gender models are the norm. Joanna Russ's award-winning short story \"When It Changed\" (1972), portraying a female-only lesbian society that flourished without men, and her novel \"The Female Man\" (1975), were enormously influential. Russ was largely responsible for introducing radical lesbian feminism into science fiction.\n\nThe bisexual female writer Alice Bradley Sheldon, who used James Tiptree, Jr. as her pen name, explored the sexual impulse as her main theme. Some stories by Tiptree portray humans becoming sexually obsessed with aliens, such as \"And I Awoke and Found Me Here on the Cold Hill's Side\" (1972), or aliens being sexually abused. \"The Girl Who Was Plugged In\" (1973) is an early precursor of cyberpunk that depicts a relationship via a cybernetically controlled body. In her award-winning novella \"Houston, Houston, Do You Read?\" (1976), Tiptree presents a female-only society after the extinction of men from disease. The society lacks stereotypically \"male\" problems such as war, but is stagnant. The women reproduce via cloning, and consider men to be comical.\n\nIn Robert Silverberg's novelette \"The Way to Spook City\" the protagonist meets and has an affair with a woman named Jill, who seems completely human - and convincingly, passionately female human. Increasingly in love with her, he still has a nagging suspicion that she is in fact a disguised member of the mysterious extraterrestrial species known as \"Spooks\", who had invaded and taken over a large part of the United States. Until the end, he repeatedly grapples with two questions: Is she human or a Spook? And if she is a Spook, could the two of them nevertheless build a life together? \n\nElizabeth A. Lynn's science fiction novel \"A Different Light\" (1978) features a same-sex relationship between two men, and inspired the name of the LGBT bookstore chain A Different Light. Lynn's The Chronicles of Tornor (1979–80) series of novels, the first of which won the World Fantasy Award, were among the first fantasy novels to include gay relationships as an unremarkable part of the cultural background. Lynn also wrote novels depicting sadomasochism.\n\nJohn Varley, who also came to prominence in the 1970s, is another writer who examined sexual themes in his work. In his \"Eight Worlds\" suite of stories and novels, humanity has achieved the ability to change sex quickly, easily and completely reversibly - leading to a casual attitude with people changing their sex back and forth as the sudden whim takes them. Homophobia is shown as initially inhibiting the uptake of this technology, as it engenders drastic changes in relationships, with bisexuality becoming the default mode for society. Varley's Gaea trilogy (1979-1984) features lesbian protagonists.\n\nFemale characters in science fiction films, such as \"Barbarella\" (1968), continued to be often portrayed as simple sex kittens.\n\nAfter the pushing back of boundaries in the 1960s and 70s, sex in genre science fiction gained wider acceptance, and was often incorporated into otherwise conventional science fiction stories with little comment.\n\nJack L. Chalker's Well World series, launched in 1977, depicts a world - designed by the super science of a vanished extraterrestrial race, the Markovians - which is divided into numerous \"hexes\", each inhabited by different sentient race. Anyone entering one of these hexes is transformed into a member of the local race. This plot device gives a wide scope for exploring the divergent biology and cultures of the various species - including their sex life. For example, a human entering a hex inhabited by an insectoid intelligent race is transformed into a female of that species, feels sexual desire for a male and mates with him. Too late does she discover that in this species, pregnancy is fatal - the mother being devoured from the inside by her larvae. In a later part, a very macho villain gains control of a supercomputer whose power includes the ability to \"redesign\" people's bodies to almost any specification. He uses the computer to give himself a \"super-virile\" body, capable of a virtually unlimited number of erections and ejaculations - and then proceeds to transform his male enemies into beautiful women and induce in them a strong sexual desire towards himself. However, a computer breakdown restores to these captives their normal minds. Though they are still in women's bodies, these bodies were designed with great strength and stamina, so as to enable them to undergo repeated sexual encounters. Thus, they are well-equipped to chase, catch and suitably punish their abuser. \n\nSet on an alien planet, Octavia E. Butler's acclaimed short story \"Bloodchild\" (1984) depicts the complex relationship between human refugees and the insect-like aliens who keep them in a preserve to protect them, but also to use them as hosts for breeding their young. Sometimes called Butler's \"pregnant man story,\" \"Bloodchild\" won the Nebula Award, Hugo Award, and Locus Award. Other of Butler's works explore miscegenation, non-consensual sex, and hybridity.\n\nIn Robert Silverberg's 1982 novella \"Homefaring\", the protagonist enters the mind of an intelligent lobster of the very far future and experiences all aspects of lobster life, including sex: \"He approached a female, knowing precisely which one was the appropriate one, and sang to her, and she acknowledged his song with a song of her own, and raised her third pair of legs for him, and let him plant his gametes beside her oviducts. There was no apparent pleasure in it, as he remembered pleasure from his time as a human. Yet it brought him a subtle but unmistakable sense of fulfillment, of the completion of biological destiny, that had a kind of orgasmic finality about it, and left him calm and anchored at the absolute dead center of his soul\". When finally returning to his human body and his human lover, he keeps longing for the lobster life, to \"his mate and her millions of larvae\". \n\nQuentin and Alice, the extremely shy and insecure protagonists of Lev Grossman's fantasy novel \"The Magicians\", spend years as fellow students at a School of Magic without admitting to being deeply in love with each other. Only the experience of being magically turned into foxes enables them at last to break through their reserve: \"Increasingly, Quentin noticed one scent more than the others. It was a sharp, acrid, skunky musk that probably would have smelled like cat piss to a human being, but to a fox it was like a drug. He tackled the source of the smell, buried his snuffling muzzle in her fur, because he had known all along, with what was left of his consciousness, that what he was smelling was Alice. Vulpine hormones and instincts were powering up, taking over, manhandling what was left of his rational human mind. He locked his teeth in the thick fur of her neck. It didn't seem to hurt her any, or at least not in a way that was easily distinguishable from pleasure. He caught a glimpse of Alice's wild, dark fox eyes rolling with terror and then half shutting with pleasure. Their tiny quick breathes puffed white in the air and mingled and disappeared. Her white fox fur was coarse and smooth at the same time, and she made little yipping sounds every time he pushed himself deeper inside her. He never wanted to stop\". When resuming their human bodies, Quentin and Alice are initially even more shy and awkward with each other, and only after going through some harrowing magical experiences are they finally able to have human sex. \n\nLois McMaster Bujold explores many areas of sexuality in the multiple award-winning novels and stories of her Vorkosigan Saga (1986-ongoing), which are set in a fictional universe influenced by the availability of uterine replicators and significant genetic engineering. These areas include an all-male society, promiscuity, monastic celibacy, hermaphroditism, and bisexuality.\n\nIn the Mythopoeic Award-winning novel \"Unicorn Mountain\" (1988), Michael Bishop includes a gay male AIDS patient among the carefully drawn central characters who must respond to an irruption of dying unicorns at their Colorado ranch. The death of the hedonistic gay culture, and the safe sex campaign resulting from the AIDS epidemic, are explored, both literally and metaphorically.\n\nSex has a major role in Harry Turtledove's 1990 novel \"A World of Difference\", taking place on the planet Minerva (a more habitable analogue of Mars). Minervan animals (including the sentient Minervans) are hexameristically radially symmetrical. This means that they have six eyes spaced equally all around, see in all directions and have no \"back\" where somebody could sneak on them unnoticed. Females (referred to as \"mates\" by the Minervans) give birth to litters that consist of one male and five females, and the \"mates\" always die after reproducing because of torrential bleeding from the places where the six fetuses were attached; this gives a population multiplication of 5 per generation if all females live to adolescence and reproduce. Females reach puberty while still hardly out of childhood, and typically experience sex only once in the lifetime - leading to pregnancy and death at birth-giving. Thus, in Minervan society male dominance seems truly determined by a biological imperative - though it takes different forms in various Minervan societies: in some females are considered expendable and traded as property, in other they are cherished and their tragic fate mourned - but still their dependent status is taken for granted. The American women arriving on Minerva and discovering this situation consider it intolerable; a major plot element is their efforts, using the resources of Earth medical science, to find a way of saving the Minervan females and let them survive birth-giving. At the end, they do manage to save a particularly sympathetic Minervan female - potentially opening the way for a complete upheaval in Minervan society.\n\n\"Glory Season\" (1993) by David Brin is set on the planet Stratos, inhabited by a strain of human beings designed to conceive clones in winter, and normal children in summer. All clones are female, because males cannot reproduce themselves individually. Further, males and females have opposed seasons of sexual receptivity; women are sexually receptive in winter, and men in summer. (This unusual heterogamous reproductive cycle is known to be evolutionarily advantageous for some species of aphids.) The novel treats themes of separatist feminism and biological determinism.\n\nElizabeth Bear's novel \"Carnival\" (2006) revisits the trope of the single-gender world, as a pair of gay male ambassador-spies attempt to infiltrate and subvert the predominately lesbian civilization of New Amazonia, whose matriarchal rulers have all but enslaved their men.\n\nThe plot of \"The Tamír Triad\" by Lynn Flewelling has a major Transsexual element. To begin with the protagonist, Prince Tobin, is to all appearances a male - both in his own perception and in that of others. Boys who swim naked together with Tobin have no reason to doubt his male anatomy. Yet, due to the magical reasons which are an important part of the plot, in the underlying, essential identity Tobin had always been a disguised girl. In the series' cataclysmic scene of magical change this becomes an evident physical fact, and Prince Tobin becomes Queen Tamír, shedding the male body and gaining a fully functioning female one. Yet, it takes Tamír a considerable time and effort to come to terms with her female sexuality.\n\nLateral Magazine, \"The freedom of a genre: Sexuality in speculative fiction\": 'In another twist of today’s society, \"Nontraditional Love\" by Rafael Grugman (2008) puts together an upside-down society where heterosexuality is outlawed, and homosexuality is the norm. A ‘traditional’ family unit consists of two dads with a surrogate mother. Alternatively, two mothers, one of whom bares a child. In a nod to the always-progressive Netherlands, this country is the only country progressive enough to allow opposite sex marriage. This is perhaps the most obvious example of cognitive estrangement. It puts the reader in the shoes of the oppressed by modelling an entire world of opposites around a fairly “normal” everyday heterosexual protagonist. A heterosexual reader would not only be able to identify with the main character, but be immersed in a world as oppressive and bigoted as the real world has been for homosexuals and the queer community throughout history.\n\n"}
{"id": "6603869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6603869", "title": "Sexual capital", "text": "Sexual capital\n\nSexual capital or erotic capital is the social value an individual or group accrues, as a result of their sexual attractiveness. As with other forms of capital, sexual capital is convertible, and may be useful in acquiring other forms of capital, including social capital and economic capital.\n\nThe term erotic capital was first used by British sociologist Catherine Hakim in the early 2000s. Hakim defined it as separate from and building upon French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu's concepts of economic, cultural and social capital. She says erotic capital is independent of class origin and therefore enables social mobility, and argues that this makes erotic capital socially subversive, which results in the prevailing power structures devaluing and trying to suppress it. In the manosphere, the parallel term \"sexual market value\" or its abbreviation \"SMV\" is often used.\n\nOne economic-related definition is based on the human truth capital theory of Gary Becker, and predicts that people invest rationally in exhibiting their sex appeal when they can expect a return on their investments. This he defines as a form of health capital which is itself a form of individual capital.\n\nThe sociological definition is based on Bourdieu's idea of fields.\nThis definition builds on Bourdieu's concept of capital. Green defines \"sexual capital\" as accruing to an individual or group due to the quality and quantity of attributes that he or she possesses which elicit an erotic response in another, including physical appearance, affect and sociocultural styles. Some of these attributes may be immutable, such as an individual's race or height, while others may be acquired through fitness training, or artificially, through plastic surgery or a makeover, etc. There is no single hegemonic form of erotic (sexual) capital. On the contrary, currencies of capital are quite variable, acquiring a hegemonic status in relation to the erotic preferences of highly specialized social groups that distinguish one sexual field from another. Importantly, this means that erotic capital is best conceived as a property of the field, and not an individual form of capital.\n\nA second definition is developed by Hakim, treating erotic capital as the fourth personal asset. This definition is a multifaceted combination of physical and social attractiveness that goes well beyond sexual attractiveness that is the focus of the 'fields' perspective. Unlike Green's conception of sexual capital, Hakim's erotic capital is an individual capital with no necessary referent to a field.\n\nExtensive supporting evidence for the concept of sexual capital, defined as beauty, physical attractiveness, and good looks, is provided in Daniel Hamermesh's latest book, \"Beauty Pays\", where he reviews the research evidence on the economic benefits of being attractive in all contexts, including higher education teaching, politics, sales and marketing, and everyday social interaction. Hamermesh assumes these economic benefits must be due to unfair discrimination, a position he takes from Deborah Rhode's new book, \"Beauty Bias\", a feminist lawyer's critique of the social benefits that accrue to attractive people, and the disadvantages experienced by unattractive people, most particularly the obese.\n\nCatherine Hakim argues that erotic capital matters beyond the sexual field, and beyond private relationships. Her research suggests that erotic capital is important in the fields of media, politics, advertising, sports, the arts, and in everyday social interaction, and consists of six elements:\n\n\nCatherine Hakim's theory of erotic capital argues that erotic capital is an important fourth personal asset, alongside economic capital, cultural/human capital and social capital; that erotic capital is increasingly important in affluent modern societies; that women generally have more erotic capital than men, and that erotic capital has social benefits and privileges that benefit the female gender. This definition of erotic capital has been contested by some sociologists who reject the idea that erotic capital / sexual capital is something individuals possess, like a portable portfolio of resources, with no implicit link to the particular sexual field in which such characteristics are deemed desirable (For more, see Green, Adam Isaiah. 2013. \"Erotic Capital and the Power of Desirability: Why 'Honey Money' is a Bad Collective Strategy for Remedying Gender Inequality\". Sexualities 16:137-158).\n\nSexual capital may be related to both sexual and mental health, as when individuals with low sexual capital show diminished ability to talk about or negotiate condom use with a partner possessing greater erotic capital, and develop negative emotional states as a consequence of feeling unattractive.\n\nIn broader theoretical terms, sexual capital is important for social theory insofar as it is one among other types of capital, including social capital, symbolic capital, and cultural capital which influence the status accorded individual members of the larger society. Sexual capital is convertible to other forms of capital, as when actors parlay sexual capital into financial capital or social capital (e.g. Marilyn Monroe), or when attractive employees get raises and social connections from bringing in more customers by virtue of their looks.\n\nSeveral studies suggest that sexual capital is closely associated with race or racial stereotypes of sexual attractiveness.\nSome studies show a more complex relationship between erotic capital and race. For example, some black men are afforded high sexual status because they appeal to the fantasies of some white gay men.\nSusan Koshy argues that Asian women have gained sexual capital in the West through glamorous accounts of western male – Asian female sexual relationships in the media and arts. James Farrer argues that white men living in China have enhanced sexual capital arising out of associations of whiteness with modernity, sexual openness and mobility.\n\nScholars suggest that sexual capital is closely tied to social class. Groes-Green argues that sexual capital and other forms of bodily power become important resources among disenfranchised young men in Southern Africa when their access to economic capital and jobs is diminished. Groes-Green further argues that the emergence of sexual capital is linked to gender relations, e.g. when poor young men build sexual capital by grooming their looks and improving sexual performance in order to satisfy female partners and in competition with middle class peers and older so-called 'sugar-daddies'. Thus sexual capital reinforces masculinity in the face of male disempowerment, and it often develops as a response to conflict between hegemonic and subordinated masculinities.\n\nBecause desirability in a sexual field may depend on more than merely sexual attractiveness, Green (2014) develops the concept, capital portfolio, to capture the particular combination of capitals that make an individual or group more desirable than others. Capital portfolios typically involve a combination of sexual capital with economic, cultural and social capitals. As an example, to the extent that women, on average, value financial resources (i.e., economic capital) in their male partners more than sexual capital, and men value sexual capital more than economic capital in their female partners, so one may conclude that heterosexual women and men seek out distinctive capital portfolios that include a different, gendered balance of capitals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2067861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2067861", "title": "Sir Thomas Buxton, 3rd Baronet", "text": "Sir Thomas Buxton, 3rd Baronet\n\nSir Thomas Fowell Buxton, 3rd Baronet (26 January 1837 – 28 October 1915), commonly referred to as \"Sir Fowell Buxton\", was the Governor of South Australia from 29 October 1895 until 29 March 1899. He was the grandson of Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, a British MP and social reformer, and the son of Sir Edward North Buxton, also an MP.\n\nHe attended Harrow School and Trinity College, Cambridge. He married Lady Victoria Noel on 12 June 1862 and they had a total of 13 children, ten surviving infancy. She was crippled by a spinal condition in 1869.\n\nHe was elected as Liberal Member of Parliament (MP) for King's Lynn at the 1865 general election, but was defeated at the 1868 election. After his defeat, he stood again for Parliament unsuccessfully on several other occasions: in Westminster at the 1874 general election, in Western Essex at the 1880 general election and at the by-elections in Northern Norfolk in 1876 and 1879. He was appointed High Sheriff of Norfolk in 1876.\n\nWhen Buxton was appointed governor, the Premier of South Australia, Charles Kingston was angry that the South Australian government had not been involved in the decision about who should be the new governor, so made life as hard as possible for Buxton and his family. The governor's allowance was reduced and customs duty was charged on their household items (including his wife's invalid carriage). Buxton took up the job anyway, and later was described as the most genial, sociable and common-sense governor, due to his gentle and unassuming friendliness. He visited gaols and hospitals, and showed genuine interest in Aboriginal culture during his time as governor. He eventually returned to England due to the ill health of his wife.\n\nTheir second son, Noel Buxton acted as aide-de-camp to his father as governor, and later was a human rights campaigner and British Member of Parliament.\n\nA memorial to Sir Thomas and his wife Victoria was erected in St Thomas' Church in Upshire in Essex in 1917, designed by Sir Robert Lorimer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46911576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46911576", "title": "Social History (journal)", "text": "Social History (journal)\n\nSocial History is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal of social history published by Routledge. It was established in 1976. The editors-in-chief are Louise Jackson and Gordon Johnston (University of Edinburgh).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in: , British Humanities Index, CSA Worldwide Political Science Abstracts, Historical Abstracts, International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, ProQuest databases, Scopus, Sociological Abstracts, Studies on Women and Gender Abstracts, and the Arts & Humanities Citation Index.\n"}
{"id": "2001375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001375", "title": "Social conflict", "text": "Social conflict\n\nSocial conflict is the struggle for agency or power in society.\nSocial conflict or group conflict occurs when two or more actors oppose each other in social interaction, reciprocally exerting social power in an effort to attain scarce or incompatible goals and prevent the opponent from attaining them. It is a social relationship wherein the action is oriented intentionally for carrying out the actor's own will against the resistance of other party or parties.\n\nConflict theory emphasizes interests, rather than norms and values, in conflict. The pursuit of interests generates various types of conflict. Thus conflict is seen as a normal aspect of social life rather than an abnormal occurrence. Competition over resources is often the cause of conflict. The three tenets of this theory are the following: 1) Society is composed of different groups that compete for resources. 2) While societies may portray a sense of cooperation, a continual power struggle exists between social groups as they pursue their own interests. Within societies, certain groups control specific resources and means of production. 3) Social groups will use resources to their own advantage in the pursuit of their goals. This often means that those who lack control over resources will be taken advantage of. As a result, many dominated groups will struggle with other groups in attempt to gain control. The majority of the time, the groups with the most resources will gain or maintain power (due to the fact that they have the resources to support their power). The idea that those who have control will maintain control is known as The Matthew Effect.\n\nOne branch of conflict theory is critical criminology. This term is based upon the view that the fundamental causes of crime is oppression, resulting from social and economic forces operating within a given society. This perspective stems from German philosopher, Karl Marx, who believed the justice system and laws favour the rich and powerful in a society and that the poor are punished far more severely for much smaller crimes.\n\nAnother branch of conflict theory is the conflict theory of aging. This came about in the 1980s due to a setback in federal spending and a loss of jobs across the nation; the older generations competed with the younger generation for employment. Among those that were the worst affected were women, low-income families, and minorities. therefor, competition can seriously harm our daily life and society\n\nIn the Critique of the Political Economy Marx writes:\nIn the social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into definite relations, which are independent of their will, namely the economic structure of society, the real foundation, on which arises a legal and political superstructure and to which correspond definite forms of social consciousness. The mode of production of material life conditions the general process of social, political and intellectual life. It is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence, but their social existence that determines their consciousness. At some stage of development, the material productive forces of society come into conflict with the existing relations of production or – this merely expresses the same thing in legal terms – with the property relations within the framework of which they have operated hitherto. From forms of development of the productive forces these relations turn into their fetters (legcuffs). Then begins an era of social revolution. The changes in the economic foundation lead sooner or later to the transformation of the whole immense superstructure.\n\nIn studying such transformations it is always necessary to distinguish between the material transformation of the economic conditions of production, which can be determined with the precision of natural science, and the legal, political, religious, artistic or philosophic – in short, ideological forms in which men become conscious of this conflict and fight it out. Just as one does not judge an individual by what he thinks about himself, so one cannot judge such a period of transformation by its consciousness, but, on the contrary, this consciousness must be explained from the contradictions of material life, from the conflict existing between the social forces of production and the relations of production. No social order is ever destroyed before all the productive forces for which it is sufficient have been developed, and new superior relations of production never replace older ones before the material conditions for their existence have matured within the framework of the old society.\n\nMankind thus inevitably sets itself only such tasks as it is able to solve, since closer examination will always show that the problem itself arises only when the material conditions for its solution are already present or at least in the course of formation. In broad outline, the Asiatic, ancient,[A] feudal and modern bourgeois modes of production may be designated as epochs marking progress in the economic development of society. The bourgeois mode of production is the last antagonistic form of the social process of production – antagonistic not in the sense of individual antagonism but of an antagonism that emanates from the individuals' social conditions of existence – but the productive forces developing within bourgeois society create also the material conditions for a solution of this antagonism. The prehistory of human society accordingly closes with this social formation.\nhttp://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1859/critique-pol-economy/preface.htm\n\nKarl Marx, a German revolutionary, emphasized his materialist views on ownership and means of production. He argued that what is most valued is a result of human labour and founded his ideas based on a capitalistic community, meaning a majority of the money is owned by only a small percentage. This causes a distinction between two classes, the industrialists and the working class. The industrialists, the ones that make up the small percentage, own the means of production. The working class are those earning their wages by selling their labour. Problems become noticeable because the upper class is looking to get the most production possible for the least amount of money. A Surplus value is created; the profit industrialists hold on to caused by workers producing more than the employers actually need to repay the cost of hiring labourers. Another occurrence is exploitation; when workers receive less money than what their labour is worth. Marx believed that the gap between industrialists and the labourers would continue to grow. The industrialists would become more and more wealthy, and the labourers continue to move towards poverty. Conflict theory is seen throughout relationships and interactions between two groups of people including races, opposite sexes, and religions.\n\nMax Weber and Karl Marx have two different approaches to the conflict theory. Marx supports the ideas of deviance, claiming that individuals choose to engage in such rebellious and conflicting behaviour as a response to the inequalities of the capitalist system. Weber discusses the conflict of stratification and its effects on power in society. He stresses property, prestige, and power as the main influences to the conflicting behaviours of groups in society.\n\nKarl Marx argued:\n\"The worker becomes all the poorer the more wealth he produces, the more his production increases in power and range. The worker becomes an ever cheaper commodity the more commodities he creates. With the increasing value of the world of things proceeds in direct proportion to the devaluation of the world of men. Labour produces not only commodities; it produces itself and the worker as a commodity -- and does so in the proportion in which it produces commodities generally.\"\n\nA commodity is a social use value produced by its owner not for personal consumption but for exchange. Marx believed that an entrepreneur has more and more to keep up with the more his company and power expands. It becomes more difficult each time his range of power increases. Eventually, the entrepreneur himself will become a commodity because he/she will no longer be able to keep up with their business and will have to put themselves (their company) up for sale on the market.\n\nStratification is the distribution of a valued good in levels, or could be seen as the inequalities among individuals and groups. Weber determined that there are three levels of stratification and those include: property (economic class), prestige (status), and power (party). Property is related to control and ownership; prestige is the position that gains value determined by interactions with others; power is influence, relations, and position.\n\nThese systems share 3 characteristics. They are as follows:\n\nConflict of interest is a type of conflict interest. We can define a conflict of interest as a situation in which a person has a private or personal interest sufficient to appear to influence the objective exercise of his or her official duties as, say, a public official, an employee, or a professional.\n\"Social conflict is not limited to hostile or antagonistic opposition; it is not wholly a clash of coercive powers as often is implied, but of any opposing social powers. Social conflict is usually recognized through violence and physical behaviour. Yet it's more that just fighting, and killing one another. At times it can deal with it throw a simple town in a conversation. It is acknowledged by someone's power.\"\n\nDr. Coser, a sociologist, disagrees with the majority of American sociologists who, he contends, have badly neglected and misunderstood the concept and function of social conflict. He defines social conflict as '… a struggle over the values and claims to scarce status, power and resources in which the aims of the opponents are to neutralize, injure, or eliminate their rivals'. He believes that the prevalent tendency is to look upon conflict as dysfunctional and pathological.\n\nTypes of social conflict:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17017917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17017917", "title": "Software studies", "text": "Software studies\n\nSoftware studies is an emerging interdisciplinary research field, which studies software systems and their social and cultural effects.\n\nThe implementation and use of software has been studied in recent fields such as cyberculture, Internet studies, new media studies, and digital culture, yet prior to software studies, software was rarely ever addressed as a distinct object of study.\n\nSoftware studies is an interdisciplinary field. To study software as an artifact, it draws upon methods and theory from the digital humanities and from computational perspectives on software. Methodologically, software studies usually differs from the approaches of computer science and software engineering, which concern themselves primarily with software in information theory and in practical application; however, these fields all share an emphasis on computer literacy, particularly in the areas of programming and source code. This emphasis on analyzing software sources and processes (rather than interfaces) often distinguishes software studies from new media studies, which is usually restricted to discussions of interfaces and observable effects.\n\nThe conceptual origins of software studies include Marshall McLuhan's focus on the role of media in themselves, rather than the content of media platforms, in shaping culture. Early references to the study of software as a cultural practice appear in Friedrich Kittler's essay, \"Es gibt keine Software,\" Lev Manovich's \"Language of New Media\", and Matthew Fuller's \"Behind the Blip: Essays on the culture of software\". Much of the impetus for the development of software studies has come from videogame studies, particularly platform studies, the study of videogames and other software artifacts in their hardware and software contexts. New media art, software art, motion graphics, and computer-aided design are also significant software-based cultural practices, as is the creation of new protocols and platforms.\n\nThe first conference events in the emerging field were Software Studies Workshop 2006 and SoftWhere 2008.\n\nIn 2008, MIT Press launched a \"Software Studies\" book series with an edited volume of essays (Matthew Fuller's \"Software Studies: a Lexicon\"), and the first academic program was launched, (Lev Manovich, Benjamin H. Bratton and Noah Wardrip-Fruin's \"Software Studies Initiative\" at U. California San Diego). \nIn 2011, a number of mainly British researchers established \"Computational Culture\", an open-access peer-reviewed journal. The journal provides a platform for \"inter-disciplinary enquiry into the nature of the culture of computational objects, practices, processes and structures.\"\n\nSoftware studies is closely related to a number of other emerging fields in the digital humanities that explore functional components of technology from a social and cultural perspective. Software studies' focus is at the level of the entire program, specifically the relationship between interface and code. Notably related are critical code studies, which is more closely attuned to the code rather than the program, and platform studies, which investigates the relationships between hardware and software.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "361558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=361558", "title": "Strangling", "text": "Strangling\n\nStrangling is compression of the neck that may lead to unconsciousness or death by causing an increasingly hypoxic state in the brain. Fatal strangling typically occurs in cases of violence, accidents, and is one of two main ways that hanging causes death (alongside breaking the victim's neck).\n\nStrangling does not have to be fatal; limited or interrupted strangling is practised in erotic asphyxia, in the choking game, and is an important technique in many combat sports and self-defence systems. \nStrangling can be divided into three general types according to the mechanism used:\n\nStrangling involves one or several mechanisms that interfere with the normal flow of oxygen into the brain:\nDepending on the particular method of strangulation, one or several of these typically occur in combination; vascular obstruction is usually the main mechanism. Complete obstruction of blood flow to the brain is associated with irreversible neurological damage and death, but during strangulation there is still unimpeded blood flow in the vertebral arteries. Estimates have been made that significant occlusion of the carotid arteries and jugular veins occurs with a pressure of around , while the trachea demands six times more at approximately .\n\nAs in all cases of strangulation, the rapidity of death can be affected by the susceptibility to carotid sinus stimulation. Carotid sinus reflex death is sometimes considered a mechanism of death in cases of strangulation, but it remains highly disputed. The reported time from application to unconsciousness varies from 7–14 seconds if effectively applied to one minute in other cases, with death occurring minutes after unconsciousness.\n\nManual strangulation (also known as \"throttling\") is strangling with the hands, fingers, or other extremities and sometimes also with blunt objects, such as batons. Depending on how the strangling is performed, it may compress the airway, interfere with the flow of blood in the neck, or work as a combination of the two. Consequently, manual strangulation may damage the larynx, and fracture the hyoid or other bones in the neck. In cases of airway compression, manual strangling leads to the frightening sensation of air hunger and may induce violent struggling.\n\nMore technical variants of manual strangulation are referred to as chokeholds, and are extensively practised and used in various martial arts, combat sports, self-defense systems, and in military hand-to-hand combat application. In some martial arts like judo and jujutsu, strangles or chokes that constrict blood flow are regarded as a safe way to render the opponent unconscious as opposed to other attacks, e.g., strikes to the head.\nDuring the 18th century, a sentence of \"Death by Throttling\" would be passed upon the verdict of a Court Martial for the crime of desertion from the British Army.\n\nLigature strangulation (also known as \"garroting\") is strangling with some form of cord such as rope, wire, or shoe laces, either partially or fully circumferencing the neck. Even though the mechanism of strangulation is similar, it is usually distinguished from hanging by the strangling force being something other than the person's own bodyweight. Incomplete occlusion of the carotid arteries is expected and, in cases of homicide, the victim may struggle for a period of time, with unconsciousness typically occurring in 10 to 15 seconds. Cases of ligature strangulation generally involve homicides of women, children, and the elderly, but accidents and suicides occur as well.\n\nCompared to hanging, the ligature mark will most likely be located lower on the neck of the victim.\n\nDuring the Spanish Inquisition, victims who admitted their alleged sins and recanted were killed via ligature strangulation (i.e. the garrote) before their bodies were burnt during the \"auto-da-fé\". Throughout much of the 20th and 21st centuries, the American Mafia used ligature strangulation as a means of murdering their victims. Confessed American serial killer Altemio Sanchez used ligature strangulation in the rapes and/or murders of his victims, as did Gary Ridgway, the Green River Killer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4190505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4190505", "title": "Survivors' Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933 (shelved)", "text": "Survivors' Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933 (shelved)\n\nSurvivors' Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933 (shelved) is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1933:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to compulsory widows' and orphans' insurance...\n\nThe concepts included in the convention were revised and included in ILO Convention C128, Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors' Benefits Convention, 1967.\n\nPrior to it being shelved, the convention was ratified by ten states.\n\n"}
{"id": "1174964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174964", "title": "Technological evolution", "text": "Technological evolution\n\nTechnological evolution is a theory of radical transformation of society through technological development. This theory originated with Czech philosopher Radovan Richta.\n\n\"Mankind In Transition; A View of the Distant Past, the Present and the Far Future\", Masefield Books, 1993. Technology (which Richta defines as \"a material entity created by the application of mental and physical effort to nature in order to achieve some value\") evolves in three stages: tools, machine, automation. This evolution, he says, follows two trends:\n\nThe pretechnological period, in which all other animal species remain today aside from some avian and primate species was a non-rational period of the early prehistoric man.\n\nThe emergence of technology, made possible by the development of the rational faculty, paved the way for the first stage: the tool. A tool provides a mechanical advantage in accomplishing a physical task, such as an arrow, plow, or hammer that augments physical labor to more efficiently achieve his objective. Later animal-powered tools such as the plow and the horse, increased the productivity of food production about tenfold over the technology of the hunter-gatherers. Tools allow one to do things impossible to accomplish with one's body alone, such as seeing minute visual detail with a microscope, manipulating heavy objects with a pulley and cart, or carrying volumes of water in a bucket.\n\nThe second technological stage was the creation of the machine. A machine (a powered machine to be more precise) is a tool that substitutes the element of human physical effort, and requires only to control its function. Machines became widespread with the industrial revolution, though windmills, a type of machine, are much older.\n\nExamples of this include cars, trains, computers, and lights. Machines allow humans to\nTremendously exceed the limitations of their bodies. Putting a machine on the farm, a tractor, increased food productivity at least tenfold over the technology of the plow and the horse.\n\nThe third, and final stage of technological evolution is the automation. The automation is a machine that removes the element of human control with an automatic algorithm. Examples of machines that exhibit this characteristic are digital watches, automatic telephone switches, pacemakers, and computer programs.\n\nIt's crucial to understand that the three stages outline the introduction of the fundamental types of technology, and so all three continue to be widely used today. A spear, a plow, a pen, a knife, a glove, a chicken and an optical microscope are all examples of tools.\n\nThe process of technological evolution culminates with the ability to achieve all the material values technologically possible and desirable by mental effort.\n\nAn economic implication of the above idea is that intellectual labour will become increasingly more important relative to physical labour. Contracts and agreements around information will become increasingly more common at the marketplace. Expansion and creation of new kinds of institutes that works with information such as universities, book stores, patent-trading companies, etc. is considered an indication that a civilization is in technological evolution.\n\nThis highlights the importance underlining the debate over intellectual property in conjunction with decentralized distribution systems such as today's internet. Where the price of information distribution is going towards zero with ever more efficient tools to distribute information is being invented. Growing amounts of information being distributed to an increasingly larger customer base as times goes by. With growing disintermediation in said markets and growing concerns over the protection of intellectual property rights it is not clear what form markets for information will take with the evolution of the information age.\n\n"}
{"id": "9298332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9298332", "title": "The Automated Society", "text": "The Automated Society\n\nIn a diagram from the book \"The Automated Society\", Bloomfield defines the history of humanity beginning over two million years ago and ending over a hundred thousand years in the future. The diagram is base on biological punctuated equilibrium and a parallel cultural evolution. The predictions of the future follow what has happened in the past.\n\nThe diagram of history shows humanity having long periods of stability interrupted with short periods of transition. Humanity is currently experiencing one of those short periods of transition, from a stable agricultural period going through a transitional industrial society leading to a stable automated period. Productivity is the key to the transition; when it is impossible to increase productivity, humanity will have arrived at the automated society.\n\nBefore humanity enters the automated society, we will suffer from two near term trends. One trend is the relentlessly increasing number of human beings. The second is the relentlessly decreasing number of jobs. Jobs will be eliminated by substituting men with machines. An example of this is agriculture where once in the peasant society there were ninety percent of the people working as farmers. With the introduction of tractors, only three percent of Americans work on the farm.\n\nOnce the problems of the lack of jobs, increased pollution and fewer natural resources are solved and the food factory put in operation, there should be a reconciliation of man to automation. In the automated society, men will live in affluence along with a total control of population. The one place where man will have an unlimited future will be in space. Space can provide for an unlimited increase in population and potentially the introduction of new human biological species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52976706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52976706", "title": "Water justice", "text": "Water justice\n\nWater justice refers to the access of individuals to clean water. More specifically, the access of individuals to clean water for survival (drinking, fishing, etc.) and recreational purposes as a human right. Water and sanitation for all provided in an equitable and sustainable way is central to global justice for poor women and men. Despite successive global declarations and efforts, hundreds of millions still suffer from lack of access. Simplistic portrayals of water and sanitation 'crises' have often led to misunderstandings on the nature of the problem and how to address it. The result has been a failure to centralize the needs and interests of the poor and marginalized within different solutions.\n\nA simultaneous increase in demand and decreasing availability of water are leading to an intensification of competition and conflicts, worsening existing water-based inequalities. Globalization and climate change has favored some actors' access and control of water at the expense of others— threatening their water and food security.\n\nWater justice promotes the regulation of corporations from polluting water, and impeding them from restricting access, in any way, to bodies of water that may provide clean water for drinking, fishing, leisure, etc. Water justice is often reached through activism, social media, outreach; through the law; through the pressure imposed by interest groups and lobbyists on elected officials; and by educating the public on the multifaceted importance of water justice.\n\nThe issue of water justice is considered a relatively recent one in human history: before the 19th century Industrial Revolution, people lived more in harmony with their immediate environment. As industrialization has spread around the globe, so the problem of contamination and diminishing access to water has spread with it. As Earth's population continues to grow, people are putting ever-increasing pressure on the planet's water resources. In a sense, the world's oceans, rivers, and other inland waters are being harmed by human activities.\n\nOver the past few decades, the increase in population and advances made in technology have increased the relevance of water justice. Water pollution has many different causes and this is one of the reasons why it is a difficult problem to solve. Surface waters and groundwater are the two types of water resources that pollution affects the most. If pollution comes from a single location, it is known as point source pollution. A great deal of water pollution happens not from one single source but from many different scattered sources. This is called non-point source pollution. Among the different sources of both point and non-point water contamination, nutrients, waste water, sewage, chemical waste, radioactive waste, oil pollution and plastics are the most common, for example.\n\nTo prevent increased pollution, environmental damage, and to keep drinking water clean, various Legal acts have been signed into law.\n\nThe Water Justice movement is largely grassroots, with small groups of citizens taking the issue into their own hands by means of protesting, petitioning, fundraising, or donating items such as water filters in order to broaden access to clean water. Some well-known people have used their exposure to further the cause of water justice: Erin Brockovich, media personality and environmental activist has spoken against Flint officials' mishandling of the water crisis there. Actress Shailene Woodley was arrested at a Dakota Access Pipeline protest, writing afterwards about her experience: \"If you are a human who requires water to survive, then this issue directly involves you.\"\n\nAnother key player arguing to defend access to clean water in the Standing Rock protests is the Standing Rock Sioux Tribal Chairman, Dave Archambault II, who has spoken to the Human Rights Council at the U.N. in Geneva on behalf of his tribe. In a separate statement, Archambault thanked those who fought the pipeline \"in the name of protecting our water.\"\n\nDespite being for the most part grassroots, the Water Justice movement is global, and encompasses a wide array of diverse groups such as the Global Water Justice Movement, Friends of the Right to Water, the Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions, Food and Water Watch, and the Heinrich Böll Foundation. Groups such as these believe that water is part of the global commons, and thus argue against the privatization of water resources and give the state the responsibility of ensuring the right to water.\n\nWater contamination usually occurs through a series of two mechanisms: point and non-point sources of pollution. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), point source pollution is \"any single identifiable source of pollution from which pollutants are discharged, such as a pipe, ditch, ship or factory smokestack.” Therefore, among the most common examples of point source pollution, poor factory and sewage treatment appear high on the list; although not as frequent, but, nevertheless, equally—if not more—dangerous, oil spills are another famous example of point source of pollution. On the other hand, non-point sources of pollution are those that may come from different sources, among which, poor and badly monitored agricultural activities can negatively affect the quality of any nearby sources of water.\n\n\nAgricultural activities that cause non-point source pollution include:\n\nWhen it comes to America alone, there has been much activity surrounding the issues of water in Standing Rock, ND and Flint, Michigan. When the issue arose of a pipeline being implemented on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation of North Dakota, residents began to take action almost immediately. When the pipeline was proposed in January 2016, the Sioux tribe released a petition that garnered almost half a million signatures within 3 months. This postponed the construction of the pipeline, but the action did not stop there. In July of the same year, the tribe attempted to sue the Army Corps of Engineers with the argument that it would harm the area's water supply. This only led the Energy Transfer Partners to file a counter lawsuit, saying that the group was hindering their work. 2016 presidential candidate Jill Stein led movements against the construction, which included spray painting a bulldozer with the phrase, \"I approve this message\". Adding to the publication of the issue, actress Shailene Woodley was arrested for blocking the construction of the pipeline. The debate on whether or not the pipeline will actually be built is still in progress.\n\nThe water crisis in Flint, Michigan has also led activists to focus on getting clean water to the people. After the 2014 decision to make the Flint River the primary water source of the town, residents quickly noticed the quality of their water declining. The American Civil Liberties Union filed multiple lawsuits against the administration in Flint, saying that the levels of lead in the water is absurd, and demanded the pipes be replaced. This has yet to happen, and the people of Flint continue to struggle for clean water.\n\nSeveral state and national organizations and programs are dedicated to the access of safe water. The scope of these organizations are varied by their outreach (from focusing on a small county to working globally) and the aspects of water justice they are contributing to. Many of these organizations work within governmental systems while others work outside of them. These organizations have helped aid in the understanding and knowledge of water related issues, how they affect individuals and communities, and have found solutions to improve safe water access.\n\nThe United States of America has some of the safest drinking water supplies in the world. Despite this, there are several cases and outbreaks of illnesses and related health issues due to contaminated water reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention every year. Several organizations work to educate communities about proper water safety procedures and places emphasis on individuals and communities to understand where their water supply comes from.\n\nMany water justice organizations work within industries related to community water to create safer water infrastructure. Many provide certification to certain professions to ensure work and product quality related to water. Additionally, many organizations have created groups for professions that deal with water infrastructure and safety. Some of these profession include public health professionals, engineers, and scientific researchers.\n\nSeveral of these organizations also promote environmental and public health related research and aid in funding and education of these projects.\n\nMany organizations related to water justice work with or within the government to enact change in water policy and management. This can include city and state governments, to the federal government, to Tribal governments.\n\n"}
{"id": "8252674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8252674", "title": "Work–family conflict", "text": "Work–family conflict\n\nWork-family conflict occurs when an individual experiences incompatible demands between work and family roles, causing participation in both roles to become more difficult. This imbalance creates conflict at the work-life interface. It is important for organizations and individuals to understand the implications linked to work-family conflict. In certain cases, work-family conflict has been associated with increased occupational burnout, job stress, decreased health, and issues pertaining to organizational commitment and job performance. \n\nWork-family conflict was first studied in the late 19 century. During this time period, work and income moved from inside the home (agricultural work) to outside the home (factories). Industrialization challenged the current relationship between working and family.\n\nBoundary theory and border theory are the foundations used to study work-family conflict. Boundary theory divides social life into two interdependent sections, work and family. Individuals have different roles and responsibilities in each section. Since the sections are interdependent, two roles cannot take place at the same time. Individuals have to participate in role transformation between expectations of the workplace and expected roles within the family structure.\n\nBorder theory expands this by considering the influences each section has on the other. Border theory attempts to pin down ways to manage conflict and achieve balance between conflicting identities. Individuals may choose to treat these segments separately, moving back and forth between work and family roles (displaying boundary theory) or can decide to integrate the segments with hopes of finding balance.\n\nConflict between work and family is bi-directional. There is a distinction between what is termed work-to-family conflict and what is termed family-to-work conflict.\n\nWork-to-family conflict occurs when experiences and commitments at work interfere with family life, such as extensive, irregular, or inflexible work hours, work overload and other forms of job stress, interpersonal conflict at work, extensive travel, career transitions, or an unsupportive supervisor or organization. For example, an unexpected meeting late in the day may prevent a parent from picking up his or her child from school.\n\nFamily-to-work conflict occurs when experiences and commitments in the family interfere with work life, such as the presence of young children, primary responsibility for children, elder care responsibilities, interpersonal conflict within the family unit, or unsupportive family members.For example, a parent may need to take time off from work in order to take care of a sick child, or to witness a tournament or performance of a child. Family-to-work conflict is perceived to result in lower work productivity of employees.\n\nWithin work-to-family conflict and family-to-work conflict, three subtypes of conflict have been identified: time-based, strain-based, and behavior-based. \"Time-based\" conflict entails competing time requirements across work and family roles, \"strain-based\" conflict entails pressures in one role impairing performance in the second role, and \"behavior-based\" conflict entails an incompatibility of behaviors necessary for the two roles. \n\nAlthough work interface with family (WIF) and family interface with work (FIW) are strongly correlated, more attention has been directed toward WIF. Research, largely attributed to the idea Ariel Russel Hochschild termed the \"ideal worker\", depicts the inelastic nature of work roles and responsibilities. The expectations employers hold of an \"ideal worker\" already rest on unrealistic assumptions about how the family should operate. Many employers expect that employees with families have someone tending to everything at home, leaving the worker unencumbered. Despite the fact that a majority of families in the U.S are dual earning, the image of the \"ideal worker\" persists, presenting work-family conflict.\n\nWorkaholism correlates with experiences of work-to-family conflict, since one's priority of work may interfere with family commitments. In its simplest form, workaholism is said to be a substantial investment in one’s work. One who is said to be involved in the act of workaholism can be labeled as a workaholic. Workaholism is said to be multifaceted and multi-directional.The flexibility and satisfaction within one’s job has an impact on an employee’s happiness and satisfaction in the home and vice versa. An overabundance of work has been said to take priority over everyone and everything else in the lives of those infatuated with work. Excessive work prevents one from forming and maintaining intimate relationships and close friendships. Workaholics are known to spend a vast amount of time in work related activities, which then results in the sacrifice of crucial family, social, and recreational activities. Marital problems, trouble with maintaining close relationships, and isolation from friends and family are the common issues related to workaholism and those involved.\n\nIn most recent years, employers have become more aware of the strain and stress that work can place on an employee. Companies have since started seeing their employees not only as workers, but also as people with personal and home lives.Implementation of family-responsive human resource practices and policies that promote work-family balance have become a reality as a way to reduce stress in both environments.\n\nWith the struggles of work-family conflict, options are necessary to provide a solution for these problems. Loehr and Schwartz compare the extreme demands experienced by an individual in the workplace to that of a professional athlete. In both scenarios energy expenditure (stress) is experienced. Without recovery (oscillation) both cannot perform to their greatest ability, eventually leading to chronic stress, burnout, and fatigue. Persist stress without oscillation and the result will be permanent damage.\n\nCreating an environment that values oscillation, for instance encouraging 15-minute walk breaks throughout the workday or offering corporate gym memberships, can improve employee cognition, energy, focus, and emotional intelligence. Companies, along with their bottom line and employees, win when mental and physical health are treated as equally important to cognitive capabilities. In order to gain competitive advantage, organizations are attempting to be portrayed as work-life balance supportive employers. Companies that value employee work-life balance are able to attract and retain satisfied employees, improve worker performance, and boost employee morale and organization identification.\n\nWork-family conflict can be diminished by establishing family-friendly policies in the workplace. Some of these policies include maternity, paternity, parental, sick leaves, and health care insurance. Organizations may provide child care options either as an on-site child care center at the business, references to close child care centers, or supplemented child care incomes for the families placing their children in a child care center.\n\nWith advances in technology, individuals who work outside the home and have intense schedules are finding ways to keep in touch with their families when they cannot physically be with them. \"Technology has provided a bit of an upper hand, allowing them unprecedented control and creativity in maneuvering the tenuous balance between work and family\" (Temple, 2009). Organizations are now able to implement telecommuting policies which allow employees to work from home and provide more flexibility and control over their schedules.\n\nThe role of gender is a large factor in work-family conflict because one's gender may determine their role in the home or work place. Female representation in the workplace is a direct result of power operating covertly through ideological controls. This is illustrated by the basic assumption of an \"ideal worker.\" Many organizations view the ideal worker as one who is \"committed to their work above all else\". Ideal workers are those that complete tasks beyond their formal and assigned behaviors, seen as a positive and valuable attribute to the organization. Individuals having to divide their time (and their commitments) between family and work are perceived as less dedicated to the organization. A manager's perception of a subordinate's role and commitment to the organization is positively associated with the individual's promotability.\n\nManager expectations of an ideal worker are often placed on female workers. Since female workers are both part of the workforce and have significant responsibilities at home, they experience a greater bearing of work-life conflict. Female employees, who managers perceive to be juggling work and family commitments, were presumed to be less committed to the organization, therefore not worthy of advancement. Women in the workforce may be \"inaccurately perceived to have less commitment to their organizations than their counterparts. Their advancement in organizations may be unfairly obstructed\". Males are perceived to be extremely dedicated to their organization because they experience lower levels of work-family conflict.\n\nA male individual may be unmarried and have no thought as to what \"typical\" family responsibilities entail because they simply have not had the experience. The male may be married, but his wife, due to the demands of the husband's position, has remained at home, tending solely to the house and children and experiencing the \"typical\" family responsibilities. Since the wife is the one who stays home and tends to the children, the husband is more present in the workforce, representing the higher percentage of males at the top of the organization hierarchy. Ironically, these are the individuals creating and reforming workplace policies.\n\nThe motherhood penalty is a term sociologists use when arguing that in the workplace working mothers encounter systematic disadvantages in pay, perceived competence, and benefits relative to childless women. In their place of work, women may suffer a per-child wage penalty, leading to a pay gap between mothers and non-mothers that is larger than the gap between men and women. Not only do working mothers have the burden of balancing work and home life, but they also have to prove they are as dedicated as other employees. Mothers tend to suffer less favorable job-site evaluations compared to non-mothers, stating that mothers are much less committed to their jobs, less authoritative, and less dependable than non-mothers. Hence, mothers may experience discrimination is terms of pay, hiring, and day-to-day job experience.\n\nThe way in which companies have shaped the \"ideal worker\" does not compliment the family lifestyle, nor does it accommodate it. Long hours and near complete devotion to the profession make it difficult for working mothers to participate in, or get ahead in the workplace while maintaining a home and family .\n"}
{"id": "25074978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25074978", "title": "World Kindness Day", "text": "World Kindness Day\n\nWorld Kindness Day is an international observance on 13 November. It was introduced in 1998 by the World Kindness Movement, a coalition of nations' kindness NGOs. It is observed in many countries, including Canada, Japan, Australia, Nigeria and United Arab Emirates. In 2009, Singapore observed the day for the first time. Italy and India also observed the day. In the UK, it is fronted by David Jamilly, who co-founded Kindness Day UK. In 2010 at the request of Michael Lloyd-White, the NSW Federation Parents and Citizens Association wrote to the Minister of The NSW Department of Education to place World Kindness Day on the NSW School Calendar. In 2012 At the request of the Chairman of World Kindness Australia, World Kindness Day was placed on the Federal School Calendar and the then Minister of School Education, Early Childhood, and Youth. The Hon Peter Garrett provided a Declaration of Support for World Kindness Australia and placed World Kindness Day on the National School Calendar for over 9000 schools. Schools across the globe are now celebrating World Kindness Day and work with local NGOs such as the Be Kind People Project and Life Vest Inside In the USA. In 2012 in Australia, Marie Bashir, Governor of NSW, hosted an event for the first time at Government House to celebrate World Kindness Day and accepted a Cool To Be Kind Award from year 3&4 students. Australian Councils representing over 1.3 million residents have also signed Declarations of Support for World Kindness Australia placing World Kindness Day on the Council Calendar of Events. Events include THE BIG HUG, handing out Kindness Cards, Global Flashmob, which was coordinated by Orly Wahba from USA which was held in 15 countries and 33 cities with its images of the event making the big screens in New York City. Canada celebrates with The Kindness Concert and in Singapore in 2009, 45,000 yellow flowers were given away. In 2017 World Kindness day was also celebrated in Slovenia, organised by volunteering organisation Humanitarcek as part of their project Randomised Kindess.\n\nWorld Kindness Day is to highlight good deeds in the community focusing on the positive power and the common thread of kindness which binds us. Kindness is a fundamental part of the human condition which bridges the divides of race religion, politics, gender and zip codes. Kindness Cards are also an ongoing activity which can either be passed on to recognize an act of kindness and or ask that an act of kindness be done. Approaches are being made to the United Nations by the peak global body, the World Kindness Movement, to have World Kindness Day officially recognized and its members unanimously sign a Declaration of Support for World Kindness.\n\nAccording to Gulf News, \"it is a day that encourages individuals to overlook boundaries, race and religion.\"\n\n {div col end}\n"}
