{"id": "21538638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538638", "title": "2012 phenomenon", "text": "2012 phenomenon\n\nVarious astronomical alignments and numerological formulae were proposed as pertaining to this date. A New Age interpretation held that the date marked the start of a period during which Earth and its inhabitants would undergo a positive physical or spiritual transformation, and that 21 December 2012 would mark the beginning of a new era. Others suggested that the date marked the end of the world or a similar catastrophe. Scenarios suggested for the end of the world included the arrival of the next solar maximum, an interaction between Earth and the black hole at the center of the galaxy, or Earth's collision with a mythical planet called Nibiru.\n\nScholars from various disciplines quickly dismissed predictions of concomitant cataclysmic events as they arose. Professional Mayanist scholars stated that no extant classic Maya accounts forecast impending doom, and that the idea that the Long Count calendar ends in 2012 misrepresented Maya history and culture, while astronomers rejected the various proposed doomsday scenarios as pseudoscience, easily refuted by elementary astronomical observations.\n\nDecember 2012 marked the conclusion of a \"b'ak'tun\"—a time period in the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar, used in Central America prior to the arrival of Europeans. Although the Long Count was most likely invented by the Olmec, it has become closely associated with the Maya civilization, whose classic period lasted from 250 to 900 AD. The writing system of the classic Maya has been substantially deciphered, meaning that a corpus of their written and inscribed material has survived from before the European conquest.\n\nUnlike the 260-day \"tzolk'in\" still used today among the Maya, the Long Count was linear rather than cyclical, and kept time roughly in units of 20: 20 days made a \"uinal\", 18 uinals (360 days) made a \"tun\", 20 tuns made a \"k'atun\", and 20 k'atuns (144,000 days or roughly 394 years) made up a \"b'ak'tun\". Thus, the Maya date of 8.3.2.10.15 represents 8 b'ak'tuns, 3 k'atuns, 2 tuns, 10 uinals and 15 days.\n\nThere is a strong tradition of \"world ages\" in Maya literature, but the record has been distorted, leaving several possibilities open to interpretation. According to the \"Popol Vuh\", a compilation of the creation accounts of the K'iche' Maya of the Colonial-era highlands, we are living in the fourth world. The \"Popol Vuh\" describes the gods first creating three failed worlds, followed by a successful fourth world in which humanity was placed. In the Maya Long Count, the previous world ended after 13 b'ak'tuns, or roughly 5,125 years. The Long Count's \"zero date\" was set at a point in the past marking the end of the third world and the beginning of the current one, which corresponds to 11 August 3114 BC in the proleptic Gregorian calendar. This means that the fourth world reached the end of its 13th b'ak'tun, or Maya date 13.0.0.0.0, on 21 December 2012. In 1957, Mayanist and astronomer Maud Worcester Makemson wrote that \"the completion of a Great Period of 13 b'ak'tuns would have been of the utmost significance to the Maya.\" In 1966, Michael D. Coe wrote in \"The Maya\" that \"there is a suggestion ... that Armageddon would overtake the degenerate peoples of the world and all creation on the final day of the 13th [b'ak'tun]. Thus ... our present universe [would] be annihilated ... when the Great Cycle of the Long Count reaches completion.\"\n\nCoe's interpretation was repeated by other scholars through the early 1990s. In contrast, later researchers said that, while the end of the 13th b'ak'tun would perhaps be a cause for celebration, it did not mark the end of the calendar. \"There is nothing in the Maya or Aztec or ancient Mesoamerican prophecy to suggest that they prophesied a sudden or major change of any sort in 2012,\" said Mayanist scholar Mark Van Stone. \"The notion of a 'Great Cycle' coming to an end is completely a modern invention.\" In 1990, Mayanist scholars Linda Schele and David Freidel argued that the Maya \"did not conceive this to be the end of creation, as many have suggested\". Susan Milbrath, curator of Latin American Art and Archaeology at the Florida Museum of Natural History, stated that, \"We have no record or knowledge that [the Maya] would think the world would come to an end\" in 2012. Sandra Noble, executive director of the Foundation for the Advancement of Mesoamerican Studies, said, \"For the ancient Maya, it was a huge celebration to make it to the end of a whole cycle,\" and, \"The 2012 phenomenon is a complete fabrication and a chance for a lot of people to cash in.\" \"There will be another cycle,\" said E. Wyllys Andrews V, director of the Tulane University Middle American Research Institute. \"We know the Maya thought there was one before this, and that implies they were comfortable with the idea of another one after this.\" Commenting on the new calendar found at Xultún, one archaeologist said \"The ancient Maya predicted the world would continue – that 7,000 years from now, things would be exactly like this. We keep looking for endings. The Maya were looking for a guarantee that nothing would change. It's an entirely different mindset.\"\n\nSeveral prominent individuals representing Maya of Guatemala decried the suggestion that the world would end with the 13th b'ak'tun. Ricardo Cajas, president of the \"Colectivo de Organizaciones Indígenas de Guatemala\", said the date did not represent an end of humanity but that the new cycle \"supposes changes in human consciousness\". Martín Sacalxot, of the office of the \"Procurador de los Derechos Humanos\" (Guatemala's Human Rights Ombudsman, PDH), said that the end of the calendar has nothing to do with the end of the world or the year 2012.\n\nThe European association of the Maya with eschatology dates back to the time of Christopher Columbus, who was compiling a work called \"Libro de las profecías\" during the voyage in 1502 when he first heard about the \"Maia\" on Guanaja, an island off the north coast of Honduras. Influenced by the writings of Bishop Pierre d'Ailly, Columbus believed that his discovery of \"most distant\" lands (and, by extension, the Maya themselves) was prophesied and would bring about the Apocalypse. End-times fears were widespread during the early years of the Spanish Conquest as the result of popular astrological predictions in Europe of a second Great Flood for the year 1524.\n\nIn the early 1900s, German scholar Ernst Förstemann interpreted the last page of the Dresden Codex as a representation of the end of the world in a cataclysmic flood. He made reference to the destruction of the world and an apocalypse, though he made no reference to the 13th b'ak'tun or 2012 and it was not clear that he was referring to a future event. His ideas were repeated by archaeologist Sylvanus Morley, who directly paraphrased Förstemann and added his own embellishments, writing, \"Finally, on the last page of the manuscript, is depicted the Destruction of the World ... Here, indeed, is portrayed with a graphic touch the final all-engulfing cataclysm\" in the form of a great flood. These comments were later repeated in Morley's book, \"The Ancient Maya\", the first edition of which was published in 1946.\n\nIt is not certain what significance the classic Maya gave to the 13th b'ak'tun. Most classic Maya inscriptions are strictly historical and do not make any prophetic declarations. Two items in the Maya classical corpus, however, do mention the end of the 13th b'ak'tun: Tortuguero Monument 6 and La Corona Hieroglyphic Stairway 12.\n\nThe Tortuguero site, which lies in southernmost Tabasco, Mexico, dates from the 7th century AD and consists of a series of inscriptions mostly in honor of the contemporary ruler Bahlam Ajaw. One inscription, known as Tortuguero Monument 6, is the only inscription known to refer to b'ak'tun 13 in any detail. It has been partially defaced; Sven Gronemeyer and Barbara MacLeod have given this translation:\n\nVery little is known about the god B'olon Yokte'. According to an article by Mayanists Markus Eberl and Christian Prager in \"British Anthropological Reports\", his name is composed of the elements \"nine\", 'OK-te' (the meaning of which is unknown), and \"god\". Confusion in classical period inscriptions suggests that the name was already ancient and unfamiliar to contemporary scribes. He also appears in inscriptions from Palenque, Usumacinta, and La Mar as a god of war, conflict, and the underworld. In one stele he is portrayed with a rope tied around his neck, and in another with an incense bag, together signifying a sacrifice to end a cycle of years.\n\nBased on observations of modern Maya rituals, Gronemeyer and MacLeod claim that the stela refers to a celebration in which a person portraying Bolon Yokte' K'uh was wrapped in ceremonial garments and paraded around the site. They note that the association of Bolon Yokte' K'uh with b'ak'tun 13 appears to be so important on this inscription that it supersedes more typical celebrations such as \"erection of stelae, scattering of incense\" and so forth. Furthermore, they assert that this event was indeed planned for 2012 and not the 7th century. Mayanist scholar Stephen Houston contests this view by arguing that future dates on Maya inscriptions were simply meant to draw parallels with contemporary events, and that the words on the stela describe a contemporary rather than a future scene.\n\nIn April–May 2012, a team of archaeologists unearthed a previously unknown inscription on a stairway at the La Corona site in Guatemala. The inscription, on what is known as Hieroglyphic Stairway 12, describes the establishment of a royal court in Calakmul in 635 AD, and compares the then-recent completion of 13 k'atuns with the future completion of the 13th b'ak'tun. It contains no speculation or prophecy as to what the scribes believed would happen at that time.\n\nMaya inscriptions occasionally mention predicted future events or commemorations that would occur on dates far beyond the completion of the 13th b'ak'tun. Most of these are in the form of \"distance dates\"; Long Count dates together with an additional number, known as a Distance Number, which when added to them makes a future date. On the west panel at the Temple of Inscriptions in Palenque, a section of text projects forward to the 80th 52-year Calendar Round from the coronation of the ruler K'inich Janaab' Pakal. Pakal's accession occurred on 9.9.2.4.8, equivalent to 27 July 615 AD in the proleptic Gregorian calendar. The inscription begins with Pakal's birthdate of 9.8.9.13.0 (24 March, ) and then adds the Distance Number 10.11.10.5.8 to it, arriving at a date of 21 October 4772 AD, more than 4,000 years after Pakal's time.\n\nAnother example is Stela 1 at Coba which marks the date of creation as , or nineteen units above the b'ak'tun. According to Linda Schele, these 13s represent \"the starting point of a huge odometer of time\", with each acting as a zero and resetting to 1 as the numbers increase. Thus this inscription anticipates the current universe lasting at least 20×13×360 days, or roughly 2.687×10 years; a time span equal to 2 quintillion times the age of the universe as determined by cosmologists. Others have suggested, however, that this date marks creation as having occurred after that time span.\n\nIn 2012, researchers announced the discovery of a series of Maya astronomical tables in Xultún, Guatemala which plot the movements of the Moon and other astronomical bodies over the course of 17 b'ak'tuns.\n\nMany assertions about the year 2012 form part of Mayanism, a non-codified collection of New Age beliefs about ancient Maya wisdom and spirituality. The term is distinct from \"Mayanist,\" used to refer to an academic scholar of the Maya. Archaeoastronomer Anthony Aveni says that while the idea of \"balancing the cosmos\" was prominent in ancient Maya literature, the 2012 phenomenon did not draw from those traditions. Instead, it was bound up with American concepts such as the New Age movement, millenarianism, and the belief in secret knowledge from distant times and places. Themes found in 2012 literature included \"suspicion towards mainstream Western culture\", the idea of spiritual evolution, and the possibility of leading the world into the New Age by individual example or by a group's joined consciousness. The general intent of this literature was not to warn of impending doom but \"to foster counter-cultural sympathies and eventually socio-political and 'spiritual' activism\". Aveni, who has studied New Age and search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) communities, describes 2012 narratives as the product of a \"disconnected\" society: \"Unable to find spiritual answers to life's big questions within ourselves, we turn outward to imagined entities that lie far off in space or time—entities that just might be in possession of superior knowledge.\"\n\nIn 1975, the ending of b'ak'tun 13 became the subject of speculation by several New Age authors, who asserted it would correspond with a global \"transformation of consciousness\". In \"Mexico Mystique: The Coming Sixth Age of Consciousness\", Frank Waters tied Coe's original date of 24 December 2011 to astrology and the prophecies of the Hopi, while both José Argüelles (in \"The Transformative Vision\") and Terence McKenna (in \"The Invisible Landscape\") discussed the significance of the year 2012 without mentioning a specific day.\n\nIn 1983, with the publication of Robert J. Sharer's revised table of date correlations in the 4th edition of Morley's \"The Ancient Maya,\" each became convinced that 21 December 2012 had significant meaning. By 1987, the year in which he organized the Harmonic Convergence event, Arguelles was using the date 21 December 2012 in \"The Mayan Factor: Path Beyond Technology\". He claimed that on 13 August 3113 BC the Earth began a passage through a \"galactic synchronization beam\" that emanated from the center of our galaxy, that it would pass through this beam during a period of 5200 \"tuns\" (Maya cycles of 360 days each), and that this beam would result in \"total synchronization\" and \"galactic entrainment\" of individuals \"plugged into the Earth's electromagnetic battery\" by 13.0.0.0.0 (21 December 2012). He believed that the Maya aligned their calendar to correspond to this phenomenon. Anthony Aveni has dismissed all of these ideas.\n\nIn 2006, author Daniel Pinchbeck popularized New Age concepts about this date in his book \"2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl\", linking b'ak'tun 13 to beliefs in crop circles, alien abduction, and personal revelations based on the use of hallucinogenic drugs and mediumship. Pinchbeck claims to discern a \"growing realization that materialism and the rational, empirical worldview that comes with it has reached its expiration date ... [w]e're on the verge of transitioning to a dispensation of consciousness that's more intuitive, mystical and shamanic\".\n\nThere is no significant astronomical event tied to the Long Count's start date. However, its supposed end date was tied to astronomical phenomena by esoteric, fringe, and New Age literature that placed great significance on astrology, especially astrological interpretations associated with the phenomenon of axial precession. Chief among these ideas is the astrological concept of a \"galactic alignment\".\n\nIn the Solar System, the planets and the Sun lie roughly within the same flat plane, known as the plane of the ecliptic. From our perspective on Earth, the ecliptic is the path taken by the Sun across the sky over the course of the year. The twelve constellations that line the ecliptic are known as the zodiacal constellations and, annually, the Sun passes through all of them in turn. Additionally, over time, the Sun's annual cycle appears to recede very slowly backward by one degree every 72 years, or by one constellation approximately every 2,160 years. This backward movement, called \"precession\", is due to a slight wobble in the Earth's axis as it spins, and can be compared to the way a spinning top wobbles as it slows down. Over the course of 25,800 years, a period often called a Great Year, the Sun's path completes a full, 360-degree backward rotation through the zodiac. In Western astrological traditions, precession is measured from the March equinox, one of the two annual points at which the Sun is exactly halfway between its lowest and highest points in the sky. At the end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st, the Sun's March equinox position was in the constellation Pisces moving back into Aquarius. This signaled the end of one astrological age (the Age of Pisces) and the beginning of another (the Age of Aquarius).\n\nSimilarly, the Sun's December solstice position (in the northern hemisphere, the lowest point on its annual path; in the southern hemisphere, the highest) was in the constellation of Sagittarius, one of two constellations in which the zodiac intersects with the Milky Way. Every year, on the December solstice, the Sun and the Milky Way, appear (from the surface of the Earth) to come into alignment, and every year precession caused a slight shift in the Sun's position in the Milky Way. Given that the Milky Way is between 10° and 20° wide, it takes between 700 and 1,400 years for the Sun's December solstice position to precess through it. In 2012 it was about halfway through the Milky Way, crossing the galactic equator. In 2012, the Sun's December solstice fell on 21 December.\n\nMystical speculations about the precession of the equinoxes and the Sun's proximity to the center of the Milky Way appeared in \"Hamlet's Mill\" (1969) by Giorgio de Santillana and Hertha von Deschend. These were quoted and expanded upon by Terence and Dennis McKenna in \"The Invisible Landscape\" (1975). \n\nAdherents to the idea, following a theory first proposed by Munro Edmonson, alleged that the Maya based their calendar on observations of the Great Rift or Dark Rift, a band of dark dust clouds in the Milky Way, which, according to some scholars, the Maya called the \"Xibalba be\" or \"Black Road\". John Major Jenkins claims that the Maya were aware of where the ecliptic intersected the Black Road and gave this position in the sky a special significance in their cosmology. Jenkins said that precession would align the Sun precisely with the galactic equator at the 2012 winter solstice. Jenkins claimed that the classical Maya anticipated this conjunction and celebrated it as the harbinger of a profound spiritual transition for mankind. New Age proponents of the galactic alignment hypothesis argued that, just as astrology uses the positions of stars and planets to make claims of future events, the Maya plotted their calendars with the objective of preparing for significant world events. Jenkins attributed the insights of ancient Maya shamans about the galactic center to their use of psilocybin mushrooms, psychoactive toads, and other psychedelics. Jenkins also associated the \"Xibalba be\" with a \"world tree\", drawing on studies of contemporary (not ancient) Maya cosmology.\n\nAstronomers such as David Morrison argue that the galactic equator is an entirely arbitrary line and can never be precisely drawn, because it is impossible to determine the Milky Way's exact boundaries, which vary depending on clarity of view. Jenkins claimed he drew his conclusions about the location of the galactic equator from observations taken at above , an altitude that gives a clearer image of the Milky Way than the Maya had access to. Furthermore, since the Sun is half a degree wide, its solstice position takes 36 years to precess its full width. Jenkins himself noted that even given his determined location for the line of the galactic equator, its most precise convergence with the center of the Sun already occurred in 1998, and so asserts that, rather than 2012, the galactic alignment instead focuses on a multi-year period centered in 1998.\n\nThere is no clear evidence that the classic Maya were aware of precession. Some Maya scholars, such as Barbara MacLeod, Michael Grofe, Eva Hunt, Gordon Brotherston, and Anthony Aveni, have suggested that some Mayan holy dates were timed to precessional cycles, but scholarly opinion on the subject remains divided. There is also little evidence, archaeological or historical, that the Maya placed any importance on solstices or equinoxes. It is possible that only the earliest among Mesoamericans observed solstices, but this is also a disputed issue among Mayanists. There is also no evidence that the classic Maya attached any importance to the Milky Way; there is no glyph in their writing system to represent it, and no astronomical or chronological table tied to it.\n\n\"Timewave zero\" is a numerological formula that purports to calculate the ebb and flow of \"novelty\", defined as increase over time in the universe's interconnectedness, or organized complexity. Terence McKenna claimed that the universe has a teleological attractor at the end of time that increases interconnectedness. He believed this which would eventually reach a singularity of infinite complexity in 2012, at which point anything and everything imaginable would occur simultaneously. He conceived this idea over several years in the early to mid-1970s whilst using psilocybin mushrooms and DMT. The scientific community considers novelty theory to be pseudoscience.\n\nMcKenna expressed \"novelty\" in a computer program which produces a waveform known as \"timewave zero\" or the \"timewave\". Based on McKenna's interpretation of the King Wen sequence of the \"I Ching\", an ancient Chinese book on divination, the graph purports to show great periods of novelty corresponding with major shifts in humanity's biological and sociocultural evolution. He believed that the events of any given time are resonantly related to the events of other times, and chose the atomic bombing of Hiroshima as the basis for calculating his end date of November 2012. When he later discovered this date's proximity to the end of the 13th b'ak'tun of the Maya calendar, he revised his hypothesis so that the two dates matched.\n\nThe 1975 first edition of \"The Invisible Landscape\" referred to 2012 (but no specific day during the year) only twice. In the 1993 second edition, McKenna employed Sharer's date of 21 December 2012 throughout.\n\nNovelty theory has been criticized for \"rejecting countless ideas presumed as factual by the scientific community\", depending \"solely on numerous controversial deductions that contradict empirical logic\", and encompassing \"no suitable indication of truth\", with the conclusion that novelty theory is a pseudoscience.\n\nThe idea that the year 2012 presaged a world cataclysm, the end of the world, or the end of human civilization, became a subject of popular media speculation as the date of 21 December 2012 approached. This idea was promulgated by many pages on the Internet, particularly on YouTube. The Discovery Channel was criticized for its \"quasi-documentaries\" about the subject that \"sacrifice[d] accuracy for entertainment\".\n\nSome people interpreted the galactic alignment apocalyptically, claiming that its occurrence would somehow create a combined gravitational effect between the Sun and the supermassive black hole at the center of our galaxy (known as Sagittarius A*), creating havoc on Earth. Apart from the \"galactic alignment\" already having happened in 1998, the Sun's apparent path through the zodiac as seen from Earth did not take it near the true galactic center, but rather several degrees above it. Even were this not the case, Sagittarius A* is 30,000 light years from Earth; it would have to have been more than 6 million times closer to cause any gravitational disruption to Earth's Solar System. This reading of the alignment was included on the History Channel documentary \"Decoding the Past\". John Major Jenkins complained that a science fiction writer co-authored the documentary, and he went on to characterize it as \"45 minutes of unabashed doomsday hype and the worst kind of inane sensationalism\".\n\nSome believers in a 2012 doomsday used the term \"galactic alignment\" to describe a different phenomenon proposed by some scientists to explain a pattern in mass extinctions supposedly observed in the fossil record. According to the Shiva Hypothesis, mass extinctions are not random, but recur every 26 million years. To account for this, it was suggested that vertical oscillations made by the Sun on its 250-million-year orbit of the galactic center cause it to regularly pass through the galactic plane. When the Sun's orbit takes it outside the galactic plane which bisects the galactic disc, the influence of the galactic tide is weaker. However, when re-entering the galactic disc—as it does every 20–25 million years—it comes under the influence of the far stronger \"disc tides\", which, according to mathematical models, increase the flux of Oort cloud comets into the inner Solar System by a factor of 4, thus leading to a massive increase in the likelihood of a devastating comet impact. However, this \"alignment\" takes place over tens of millions of years, and could never be timed to an exact date. Evidence shows that the Sun passed through the plane bisecting the galactic disc three million years ago and in 2012 was moving farther above it.\n\nA third suggested alignment was some sort of planetary conjunction occurring on 21 December 2012; however, there was no conjunction on that date. Multi-planet alignments did occur in both 2000 and 2010, each with no ill result for the Earth. Jupiter is the largest planet in the Solar System; larger than all other planets combined. When Jupiter is near opposition, the difference in gravitational force that the Earth experiences is less than 1% of the force that the Earth feels daily from the Moon.\n\nAnother idea tied to 2012 involved a geomagnetic reversal (often referred to as a pole shift by proponents), possibly triggered by a massive solar flare, that would release an energy equal to 100 billion atomic bombs. This belief was supposedly supported by observations that the Earth's magnetic field was weakening, which could precede a reversal of the north and south magnetic poles, and the arrival of the next solar maximum, which was expected sometime around 2012.\n\nMost scientific estimates, however, say that geomagnetic reversals take between 1,000 and 10,000 years to complete, and do not start on any particular date. Furthermore, the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration predicted that the solar maximum would peak in late 2013 or 2014, and that it would be fairly weak, with a below-average number of sunspots. In any case, there was no scientific evidence linking a solar maximum to a geomagnetic reversal, which is driven by forces entirely within the Earth. Instead, a solar maximum would be mostly notable for its effects on satellite and cellular phone communications. David Morrison attributed the rise of the solar storm idea to physicist and science popularizer Michio Kaku, who claimed in an interview with Fox News that a solar peak in 2012 could be disastrous for orbiting satellites, and to NASA's headlining a 2006 webpage as \"Solar Storm Warning\", a term later repeated on several doomsday pages.\n\nSome believers in a 2012 doomsday claimed that a planet called Planet X, or Nibiru, would collide with or pass by the Earth. This idea, which appeared in various forms since 1995, initially predicted Doomsday in May 2003, but proponents abandoned that date after it passed without incident. The idea originated from claims of channeling alien beings and is widely ridiculed. Astronomers calculated that such an object so close to Earth would be visible to anyone looking up at the night sky.\n\nAuthor Graham Hancock, in his book \"Fingerprints of the Gods\", interpreted Coe's remarks in \"Breaking the Maya Code\" as evidence for the prophecy of a global cataclysm. Filmmaker Roland Emmerich later credited the book with inspiring his 2009 disaster film \"2012\".\n\nOther speculations regarding doomsday in 2012 included predictions by the Web Bot project, a computer program that purports to predict the future by analyzing Internet chatter. However, commentators have rejected claims that the bot is able to predict natural disasters, as opposed to human-caused disasters like stock market crashes.\n\nThe 2012 date was also loosely tied to the long-running concept of the Photon Belt, which predicted a form of interaction between Earth and Alcyone, the largest star of the Pleiades cluster. Critics argued that photons cannot form belts, that the Pleiades, located more than 400 light years away, could have no effect on Earth, and that the Solar System, rather than getting closer to the Pleiades, was in fact moving farther away from it.\n\nSome media outlets tied the fact that the red supergiant star Betelgeuse would undergo a supernova at some point in the future to the 2012 phenomenon. However, while Betelgeuse was certainly in the final stages of its life, and would die as a supernova, there was no way to predict the timing of the event to within 100,000 years. To be a threat to Earth, a supernova would need to be no further than 25 light years from the Solar System. Betelgeuse is roughly 600 light years away, and so its supernova would not affect Earth. In December 2011, NASA's Francis Reddy issued a press release debunking the possibility of a supernova occurring in 2012.\n\nAnother claim involved alien invasion. In December 2010, an article, first published in examiner.com and later referenced in the English-language edition of \"Pravda\" claimed, citing a Second Digitized Sky Survey photograph as evidence, that SETI had detected three large spacecraft due to arrive at Earth in 2012. Astronomer and debunker Phil Plait noted that by using the small-angle formula, one could determine that if the object in the photo were as large as claimed, it would have had to be closer to Earth than the Moon, which would mean it would already have arrived. In January 2011, Seth Shostak, chief astronomer of SETI, issued a press release debunking the claims.\n\nThe phenomenon spread widely after coming to public notice, particularly on the Internet. Hundreds of thousands of websites were posted on the subject. \"Ask an Astrobiologist\", a NASA public outreach website, received over 5,000 questions from the public on the subject from 2007, some asking whether they should kill themselves, their children or their pets. In May 2012, an Ipsos poll of 16,000 adults in 21 countries found that 8 percent had experienced fear or anxiety over the possibility of the world ending in December 2012, while an average of 10 percent agreed with the statement \"the Mayan calendar, which some say 'ends' in 2012, marks the end of the world\", with responses as high as 20 percent in China, 13 percent in Russia, Turkey, Japan and Korea, and 12 percent in the United States. At least one suicide was directly linked to fear of a 2012 apocalypse, with others anecdotally reported. Jared Lee Loughner, the perpetrator of the 2011 Tucson shooting, followed 2012-related predictions. A panel of scientists questioned on the topic at a plenary session at the Astronomical Society of the Pacific contended that the Internet played a substantial role in allowing this doomsday date to gain more traction than previous similar panics.\n\nBeginning in 2000, the small French village of Bugarach, population 189, began receiving visits from \"esoterics\"—mystic believers who had concluded that the local mountain, Pic de Bugarach, was the ideal location to weather the transformative events of 2012. In 2011, the local mayor, Jean-Pierre Delord, began voicing fears to the international press that the small town would be overwhelmed by an influx of thousands of visitors in 2012, even suggesting he might call in the army. \"We've seen a huge rise in visitors\", Delord told \"The Independent\" in March 2012. \"Already this year more than 20,000 people have climbed right to the top, and last year we had 10,000 hikers, which was a significant rise on the previous 12 months. They think Pic de Bugarach is 'un garage à ovnis' [a garage for UFOs]. The villagers are exasperated: the exaggerated importance of something which they see as completely removed from reality is bewildering. After 21 December, this will surely return to normal.\" In December 2012, the French government placed 100 police and firefighters around both Bugarach and Pic de Bugarach, limiting access to potential visitors. Ultimately, only about 1,000 visitors appeared at the height of the \"event\". Two raves were foiled, 12 people had to be turned away from the peak, and 5 people were arrested for carrying weapons. Jean-Pierre Delord was criticised by members of the community for failing to take advantage of the media attention and promote the region.\n\nThe Turkish village of Şirince, near Ephesus, expected to receive over 60,000 visitors on 21 December 2012, as New Age mystics believed its \"positive energy\" would aid in weathering the catastrophe. Only a fraction of that number actually arrived, with a substantial component being police and journalists, and the expected windfall failed to materialise.\n\nSimilarly, the pyramid-like mountain of Rtanj, in the Serbian Carpathians, attracted much apocalyptic attention, as many believed an artificial pyramid structure buried within it would emit a powerful force shield on the day, protecting those within it. Hotels around the base received up to 500 bookings a piece for rooms.\n\nIn Russia, inmates of a women's prison experienced \"a collective mass psychosis\" in the weeks leading up to the supposed doomsday, while residents of a factory town near Moscow reportedly emptied a supermarket of matches, candles, food and other supplies. The Minister of Emergency Situations declared in response that according to \"methods of monitoring what is occurring on the planet Earth\", there would be no apocalypse in December. When asked when the world would end in a press conference, Russian President Vladimir Putin said, \"In about 4.5 billion years.\"\n\nIn December 2012, Vatican astronomer Rev. José Funes wrote in the Vatican newspaper \"L'Osservatore Romano\" that apocalyptic theories around 2012 were \"not even worth discussing\".\n\nIn China, up to one thousand members of the Christian cult Almighty God were arrested after claiming that the end of b'ak'tun 13 marked the end of the world, and that it was time to overthrow Communism. Shoppers were reported to be hoarding supplies of candles in anticipation of coming darkness, while online retailer Taobao sold tickets to board Noah's Ark to customers. Bookings for wedding ceremonies on 21 December 2012 were saturated in several cities. On 14 December 2012, a man in Henan province attacked and wounded twenty-three children with a knife. Authorities suspected the man had been \"influenced\" by the prediction of the upcoming apocalypse. Academics in China attributed the widespread belief in the 2012 doomsday in their country to a lack of scientific literacy and a mistrust of the government-controlled media.\n\nOn 6 December 2012, Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard delivered a hoax speech for the radio station triple J in which she declared \"My dear remaining fellow Australians; the end of the world is coming. Whether the final blow comes from flesh-eating zombies, demonic hell-beasts or from the total triumph of K-Pop, if you know one thing about me it is this – I will always fight for you to the very end.\" Radio announcer Neil Mitchell described the hoax as \"immature\" and pondered whether it demeaned her office.\n\nThose Mesoamerican countries that once formed part of the Maya civilization – Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador – all organized festivities to commemorate the end of b'ak'tun 13 at the largest Maya sites. On 21 December 2011, the Maya town of Tapachula in Chiapas activated an eight-foot digital clock counting down the days until the end of b'ak'tun 13. On 21 December 2012, major events took place at Chichén Itzá in Mexico and Tikal in Guatemala. In El Salvador, the largest event was held at Tazumal, and in Honduras, at Copán. In all of these archaeological sites, Maya rituals were held at dawn led by shamans and Maya priests.\n\nOn the final day of b'ak'tun 13, residents of Yucatán and other regions formerly dominated by the ancient Maya celebrated what they saw as the dawn of a new, better era. According to official figures from Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH), about 50,000 people visited Mexican archaeological sites on 21 December 2012. Of those, 10,000 visited Chichén Itzá in Yucatán, 9,900 visited Tulum in Quintana Roo, and 8,000 visited Palenque in Chiapas. An additional 10,000 people visited Teotihuacan near Mexico City, which is not a Maya site. The main ceremony in Chichén Itzá was held at dawn in the plaza of the Temple of Kukulkán, one of the principal symbols of Maya culture. The archaeological site was opened two hours early to receive thousands of tourists, mostly foreigners who came to participate in events scheduled for the end of b'ak'tun 13.\n\nThe fire ceremony at Tikal was held at dawn in the main plaza of the Temple of the Great Jaguar. The ceremony was led by Guatemalan and foreign priests. The President of Guatemala, Otto Pérez, and of Costa Rica, Laura Chinchilla, participated in the event as special guests. During the ceremony the priests asked for unity, peace and the end of discrimination and racism, with the hope that the start of a new cycle will be a \"new dawn\". About 3,000 people participated in the event.\n\nMost of these events were organized by agencies of the Mexican and Central American governments, and their respective tourism industries expected to attract thousands of visitors. Mexico is visited by about 22 million foreigners in a typical year. However, in 2012, the national tourism agency expected to attract 52 million visitors just to the regions of Chiapas, Yucatán, Quintana Roo, Tabasco and Campeche. A Maya activist group in Guatemala, Oxlaljuj Ajpop, objected to the commercialization of the date. A spokesman from the Conference of Maya Ministers commented that for them the Tikal ceremony is not a show for tourists but something spiritual and personal. The secretary of the Great Council of Ancestral Authorities commented that living Maya felt they were excluded from the activities in Tikal. This group held a parallel ceremony, and complained that the date has been used for commercial gain. In addition, before the main Tikal ceremony, about 200 Maya protested the celebration because they felt excluded. Most modern Maya were indifferent to the ceremonies, and the small number of people still practising ancient rites held solemn, more private ceremonies.\n\nOsvaldo Gomez, a technical advisor to the Tikal site, complained that many visitors during the celebration had illegally climbed the stairs of the Temple of the Masks, causing \"irreparable\" damage.\n\nIn Brazil, Décio Colla, the Mayor of the City of São Francisco de Paula, Rio Grande do Sul, mobilized the population to prepare for the end of the world by stocking up on food and supplies. In the city of Corguinho, in the Mato Grosso do Sul, a colony was built for survivors of the expected tragedy. In Alto Paraíso de Goiás, the hotels also made specific reservations for prophetic dates. On 11 October 2012, in the Brazilian city of Teresina, police interrupted what was believed to have been an attempted mass suicide by up to one hundred members of a cult headed by self-proclaimed prophet Luis Pereira dos Santos, who predicted the end of the world on the feast day of Our Lady of Aparecida. Santos was subsequently arrested.\n\nIn Bolivia, President Evo Morales participated in Quechua and Aymara rituals, organized with government support, to commemorate the Southern solstice that took place in Isla del Sol, in the southern part of Lake Titicaca. During the event, Morales proclaimed the beginning of \"Pachakuti\", meaning the world's wake up to a culture of life and the beginning of the end to wild capitalism, and he proposed to dismantle the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.\n\nOn 21 December 2012, the Uritorco in Córdoba, Argentina was closed, as a mass suicide there had been proposed on Facebook.\n\nIn the United States, sales of private underground blast shelters increased noticeably after 2009, with many construction companies' advertisements calling attention to the 2012 apocalypse. In Michigan, schools were closed for the Christmas holidays two days early, in part because rumours of the 2012 apocalypse were raising fears of repeat shootings similar to that at Sandy Hook. American reality TV stars Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt revealed that they had spent most of their $10 million of accumulated earnings by 2010 because they believed the world would end in 2012.\n\nThe 2012 phenomenon was discussed or referenced in several media. Several TV documentaries, as well as some contemporary fictional references to the year 2012, referred to 21 December as the day of a cataclysmic event.\n\nThe UFO conspiracy TV series \"The X-Files\" cited 22 December 2012 as the date for an alien colonization of the Earth and mentioned the Mayan calendar \"stopping\" on this date. The History Channel aired a handful of special series on doomsday that included analysis of 2012 theories, such as \"Decoding the Past\" (2005–2007), \"2012, End of Days\" (2006), \"Last Days on Earth\" (2006), \"Seven Signs of the Apocalypse\" (2009), and \"Nostradamus 2012\" (2008). The Discovery Channel also aired \"2012 Apocalypse\" in 2009, suggesting that massive solar storms, magnetic pole reversal, earthquakes, supervolcanoes, and other drastic natural events could occur in 2012. In 2012, the National Geographic Channel launched a show called \"Doomsday Preppers\", a documentary series about survivalists preparing for various cataclysms, including the 2012 doomsday.\n\nHundreds of books were published on the topic. The bestselling book of 2009, Dan Brown's \"The Lost Symbol\", featured a coded mock email number (2456282.5) that decoded to the Julian date for 21 December 2012.\n\nIn cinema, the 2009 disaster film \"2012\" was inspired by the phenomenon, and advance promotion prior to its release included a stealth marketing campaign in which TV spots and websites from the fictional \"Institute for Human Continuity\" called on people to prepare for the end of the world. As these promotions did not mention the film itself, many viewers believed them to be real and contacted astronomers in panic. Although the campaign was heavily criticized, the film became one of the most successful of its year, grossing nearly $770 million worldwide. An article in \"The Daily Telegraph\" attributed the widespread fear of the 2012 phenomenon in China to the film, which was a smash hit in that country because it depicted the Chinese building \"survival arks\". Lars von Trier's 2011 film \"Melancholia\" featured a plot in which a planet emerges from behind the Sun on a collision course with Earth. Announcing his company's purchase of the film, the head of Magnolia Pictures said in a press release, \"As the 2012 apocalypse is upon us, it is time to prepare for a cinematic last supper\".\n\nThe phenomenon also inspired several rock and pop music hits. As early as 1997, \"A Certain Shade of Green\" by Incubus referred to the mystical belief that a shift in perception would arrive in 2012 (\"Are you gonna stand around till 2012 A.D.? / What are you waiting for, a certain shade of green?\"). More recent hits include \"2012 (It Ain't the End)\" (2010) performed by Jay Sean and \"Till the World Ends\" (2011) performed by Britney Spears. Towards mid-December 2012, an internet hoax related to South Korean singer Psy being one of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse was widely circulated around social media platforms. The hoax purported that once Psy's \"Gangnam Style\" YouTube video amassed a billion views, the world would end. Indian composer A. R. Rahman, known for \"Slumdog Millionaire\", released his single \"Infinite Love\" to \"instill faith and optimism in people\" prior to the predicted doomsday. The artwork for All Time Low's 2012 album \"Don't Panic\" satirizes various cataclysmic events associated with the world ending on 21 December 2012.\n\nA number of brands ran commercials tied to the 2012 apocalypse in the months and days leading to the date. In February 2012, American automotive company General Motors aired an advertisement during the annual Super Bowl football game in which a group of friends drove Chevrolet Silverados through the ruins of human civilization following the 2012 apocalypse, while on 17 December 2012, Jell-O ran an ad saying that offering Jell-O to the Mayan gods would appease them into sparing the world. John Verret, Professor of Advertising at Boston University, questioned the utility of tying large sums of money to such a unique and short-term event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54129701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54129701", "title": "999 phone charging myth", "text": "999 phone charging myth\n\nThe 999 phone charging myth is an urban myth which claims that if a mobile phone has low battery then dialing 999 (or any regional emergency number) charges the phone so it has more power. This was confirmed as a myth by several British police forces who publicly cited the dangers of making such calls.\n\nThe basis for the myth was a feature of BlackBerry phones: If the battery level was too low, the phone automatically locked down phone features and shut down the phone radio for all calls except to emergency services. People discovered that if they dialed 999 then immediately hung up, it would override the shutdown for a number of minutes so that phone calls could be made.\n\nThe myth is believed to have originated in BlackBerry forums around 2012. In 2013, Derbyshire Constabulary released a press release telling people not to believe the myth that calling 999 charges the battery. They cited that for every silent or aborted 999 call received, the operators have to call the person back to make sure there is no emergency. These hoax calls waste police time that could potentially block responses to real emergencies. Bedfordshire Police also released information asking people not to call 999 except for an emergency as they stated that in the last six months of 2013 they had an increase in hoax 999 calls from people believing the myth. Other sources supplemented these press releases by stating that misusing the 999 number is illegal. They also stated that the police could cut off telephones being used to abuse the 999 service.\n\nA related myth emerged: that when Siri on an iPhone is told, \"Charge my phone to 100%\", the phone would call emergency services as a secret safety code. This was later traced to a bug in Apple programming that was fixed within a day. The myth continued to spread on social media as a prank.\n"}
{"id": "13416327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13416327", "title": "Accident-proneness", "text": "Accident-proneness\n\nAccident-proneness, also known as clumsiness, is the idea that some people have a greater predisposition than others to suffer accidents, such as car crashes and industrial injuries. It may be used as a reason to deny any insurance on such individuals.\n\nThe early work on this subject dates back to 1919, in a study by Greenwood and Woods, who studied workers at a British munitions factory and found that accidents were unevenly distributed among workers, with a relatively small proportion of workers accounting for most of the accidents.\nFurther work on accident-proneness was carried out in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nThe subject is still being studied actively. Research into accident-proneness is of great interest in safety engineering, where human factors such as pilot error, or errors by nuclear plant operators, can have massive effects on the reliability and safety of a system.\nOne of the areas of most interest and more profound research is the Aeronautical area, where accidents have been reviewed from psychological and human factors, to mechanical and technical failures. There has been many conclusive studies, that present that human factor has great influence on the results of those occurrences.\n\nStatistical evidence clearly demonstrates that different individuals can have different rates of accidents from one another; for example, young male drivers are the group at highest risk for being involved in car accidents. There also seems to be substantial variation in personal accident rates between individuals.\n\nHowever, a number of studies have cast doubt on whether accident-proneness actually exists as a \"distinct, persistent and independently verifiable\" physiological or psychological syndrome. Although substantial research has been devoted to this subject, there still seems to be no conclusive evidence either for or against the existence of accident proneness in this sense.\n\nThe exact nature and causes of accident-proneness, assuming that it exists as a distinct entity, are unknown. Factors which have been considered as associated with accident-proneness have included absent-mindedness, clumsiness, carelessness, impulsivity, predisposition to risk-taking, and unconscious desires to create accidents as a way of achieving secondary gains.\nBroad studies on the speed and accuracy using a specially designed test sheet of finding a specific figure on various people as Japanese, Brazil born Japanese, Chinese, Russian, Spanish, Filipinos, Thai and Central Americans with different educational backgrounds. The studies have revealed that educational background or study experience is the key factor of concentration capability. Screening new employees using this test gave drastic decrease of work accidents in several companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1449800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449800", "title": "Breaking news", "text": "Breaking news\n\nBreaking news, interchangeably termed late-breaking news and also known as a special report or special coverage or news bulletin, is a current issue that broadcasters feel warrants the interruption of scheduled programming and/or current news in order to report its details. Its use is also assigned to the most significant story of the moment or a story that is being covered live. It could be a story that is simply of wide interest to viewers and has little impact otherwise. Many times, breaking news is used after the news organization has already reported on the story. When a story has not been reported on previously, the graphic and phrase \"Just In\" is sometimes used instead.\n\nThe format of a \"special report\" or \"breaking news\" event on television commonly consists of the current non-news programming (or, in some cases, regularly scheduled newscasts) suddenly switching to a reverse countdown, usually from 5 seconds, to allow any affiliated stations to switch to the network news feed (television stations typically do not provide these countdowns for local coverage, normally leading with a graphic and/or voiceover announcing the cut-in). If a national network newscast is in progress when the breaking news event occurs, the newscast will pause temporarily to allow other network affiliates to join the network news feed.\nThere is then an opening graphic, featuring music (such as NBC's \"The Pulse of Events\", composed by John Williams) which adds an emphasis on the importance of the event. This is usually followed by the introduction of a news anchor, who welcomes the viewer to the broadcast and introduces the story at hand. Lower thirds and other graphics may also be altered to convey a sense of urgency. \n\nOnce the story is introduced, the network or local station may, if possible, choose to continue to show a live shot of the anchor or may cut away to video or images of the story that is being followed during the broadcast. Additionally, the coverage may be passed to a reporter at the location of the breaking event, possibly sharing more information about the story as it breaks.\n\nDepending upon the story being followed, the report may last only a few minutes, or continue for multiple hours – or with the longest uninterrupted news events, four days – at a time (events in which the latter instances has occurred include the assassination of John F. Kennedy and the September 11 attacks, which took place between November 22–26, 1963 and September 11–15, 2001, respectively). If coverage continues for an extended amount of time, the network may integrate analysis about the story through analysts in-studio, via phone, satellite, broadband (B-GAN) or through other means of communication. Depending on the severity of the event, regular commercial advertising may be completely suspended for sustained coverage, and network affiliates will be required to insert their station identification in at the top of the hour overlaid during the report rather than through the usual means of a station imaging promo or program reminder. \n\nIf a story occurs during the Early Fringe timeslot and depending on the magnitude of the events at hand, local stations might be given the opportunity to break away from the network feed and begin their evening newscasts. This is set up by a cue from the network's talent that they will pause for a few seconds to reset coverage, at which point an opening graphic may be rolled again. Information is also disseminated from an internal alert service utilized by a station's master control. After the local newscast, stations will likely return to the network's feed as they normally would for the nightly news, but they may be joining in on an \"extended edition\". Whether or not a station will take over for local news is usually the choice of that station's news director.\n\nWhen the coverage comes to a close, the network or station may either resume programming that was occurring prior to the event or begin new programming (if the breaking news occurs during a newscast the network will switch back to the newscast upon completion if time permits), depending upon the amount of time spent on the coverage. The anchor will usually remind viewers to check the network's website (or that of the station, if coverage is provided locally), or watch any cable news channels that may be co-owned with the network for more information. If the story breaks during daytime programming, the anchor will usually remind viewers that there will be or might be more details on their local news that day and a full wrap-up on the network's evening news program. Usually, regular daytime programming is re-joined in progress and segments may be missed.\n\nIf the event occurs during prime time, the anchor will usually remind viewers that there will be more details on their late local newscast and on the network's overnight news program (if applicable) the next morning. Programming at this time is either joined in progress or started back up at the point of the interruption, depending on whether the program is new to air, highly rated or has time left in its time slot to finish airing (for instance, ABC's breaking news report involving the April 2017 Shayrat missile strike took into account a new episode of the popular series \"Scandal\", where the show was resumed right at the point of interruption twice for those reports; NBC's coverage featured the low-rated \"\" joined in the middle of an episode in progress after their special report without any of that consideration). In either of the above instances, network (and in some cases, for local stations, syndicated) programs that have segments not aired or are pre-empted in their entirety by breaking news reports – particularly those that extend to or longer than 20 or 45 minutes, depending on the length of the previously scheduled program – may have to be rescheduled to air at a later time. \n\nSome events, like State of the Union addresses and presidential debates, are scheduled to start at the top of the hour during prime time. Under those circumstances, regularly scheduled network programming is preempted for the entire duration of the event. If there is sufficient time (generally 60 minutes or more) remaining in prime time, the network may broadcast its next regularly scheduled program in its entirety or join regularly scheduled programming in progress. However, if there is insufficient time remaining for any prime-time programs, the special report will continue until the network affiliates begin airing their late local newscasts.\n\nIn the United States, on days when presidential elections take place, regularly scheduled prime-time programming is suspended so that networks can air up-to-the-minute coverage of the elections. Likewise, regularly scheduled daytime programs are suspended during coverage of presidential inaugurations. However, during those types of events, regular commercial advertising is shown. Similar procedures are enacted for elections or political inaugurations that take place in other countries.\n\nOn radio, the process of a breaking news story is somewhat the same, though some different considerations are made for the medium. For instance, a breaking news theme is required by default to have an urgent tenor and be used only for the purpose of true breaking news or bulletins. This is obvious on the local all-news radio stations owned by Entercom (formerly owned by CBS Radio), which very rarely use a breaking news theme for all but the most urgent and dire of breaking news, and is purposefully structured to give a sense of attention for the listener, almost sounding like an alarm. For local events, continuous coverage may be imposed, or else the station may wait until they have a reporter at the scene and will promise more details of the event as they become available.\n\nNational news that is broadcast over a radio network requires constant monitoring by station employees to allow the network coverage to air, although many stations will take the 'urgent' signal sent by the network and break into programming immediately. Again, continuous coverage from a national radio network depends on the severity of the event, and often the network may just pass down the coverage by their local affiliate with spare commentary by the network's anchors.\n\nOther considerations are made also; FM music stations rarely relay breaking news unless it is an event of grave national concern, though local weather warnings are relayed when in effect (either in the form of updates provided by an on-staff anchor or disc jockey, an emergency alert system or through an audio simulcast of a television station which maintains a contractual partnership with a radio outlet). Less urgent events allow a network to feed updates to stations at 20, 30 and 50 minutes after the hour to give a summary of events. Stations are also careful about what stories are relayed during play-by-play broadcasts of professional and college sports, as those are the programs most listened to on radio, so breaking news coverage is limited to only commercial breaks.\n\nNews bulletins have been a fixture of radio broadcasting since at least the 1920s. Examples of early news bulletins in the Golden Age of Radio include fictionalized versions in the 1938 radio drama \"The War of the Worlds\" and coverage of the attack on Pearl Harbor, which was also the first television news bulletin, reported on stations in New York and Pennsylvania. KTLA in Los Angeles is credited with being the first television station to provide extended coverage of a breaking news event: for 27½ hours from April 8 to 9, 1949, the station carried live coverage of an attempt to rescue three-year-old Kathy Fiscus, who had fallen down an abandoned well in San Marino, California, where she ultimately perished due to asphyxia from a lack of oxygen.\n\nIn the decades before 24-hour news networks such as CNN began to exist, programming interruptions were restricted to extremely urgent news, such as the death of an important political figure. For example, one of the earliest such interruptions that modern viewers would recognize as \"breaking news\" coverage was for the assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1963, (with CBS News anchorman Walter Cronkite's coverage being especially noted), and as such reflected the relatively crude technology and procedures of that era. Such breaks are now common at 24-hour news channels, which may have an anchor available for live interruption at any time. Some networks, such as Sky News, largely emphasize this, even advertising the station/network as being \"first for breaking news\".\n\nAnother type of breaking news is that of severe weather events, which had such coverage evolve in a very similar manner. In North America until the 1990s, television and radio stations normally only provided long-form weather coverage during immediate, ongoing threats (such as a tornado that has been confirmed visually or by radar to be producing damage or a landfalling hurricane); cut-ins and, in the case of television stations, alert crawls during regular programming were used otherwise, even when higher-end alerts such as tornado warnings were issued. Advancements in newsgathering and weather technology (including the deployment of helicopters to provide aerial coverage and radar systems that can detect specific storm attributes), coupled with a few highly life-threatening events during the 1990s (such as Hurricane Andrew and the 1999 Oklahoma tornado outbreak) and the resulting heightened urgency to advise those in the storm's path to take safety precautions in advance made extended (or \"wall-to-wall\") weather coverage once a high-end alert is issued more common in storm-prone areas, with cut-ins only being used in weather events of lesser severity.\n\nIn various countries and at various news outlets, terms such as \"(late)breaking\", \"urgent\", \"flash\", \"bulletin\", and \"alert\" may accompany breaking news reports. The term \"breaking news\" has come to replace the older use of \"news bulletin\", with the latter term relegated to only the most extraordinary of events. There has been widespread use of \"breaking news\" at the local level, particularly when one station in a market wants to emphasize the exclusivity of coverage. Not all viewers agree that stories assigned as \"breaking news\" rise to the significance or level of interest that warrant such a designation.\n\nAmerican network news divisions still use the term \"special report\" for either a breaking news, a developing news story or both, but tend to use the term \"breaking news\" on their morning and evening news programs. Most local stations across the United States that interrupt regular programming for a news story use the \"breaking news\" and \"special report\" terms (though, local broadcast news outlets use the former most often), with a voice-over stating either \"This is a breaking news special report\" or \"This is a special breaking news report\" or \"This is a(n) (network name) News Special Report\" or \"This is a(n) (station brand name) breaking news (special) report\" or \"(From [station brand name],) this is breaking news.\" The breaking news ending has a past-tense variation, followed by a disclaimer for viewers who would like more information to see the network's news division website.\n\nHowever, \"special report\" has also been de-emphasized by cable news channels in the United States, as both Fox News Channel and CNN now use that phrase for regular programming; Fox News carries \"Special Report with Bret Baier\", a daily political affairs program, while CNN's \"Special Report\" is a catch-all banner for CNN's library documentary and true crime programming.\n\nIn early coverage of a breaking story, details are commonly sketchy, usually due to the limited information that is available at the time. For example, during the Sago Mine disaster, there were initial reports that all twelve miners were found alive, but news organizations later learned that only one actually survived.\n\nOften it is considered important to be quick with news bulletins also for less important news. Such news might not be updated later, even if it was found that information was wrong or severely incomplete. If someone (e.g. when editing Wikipedia) later wants to research the event, only incomplete information might be found.\n\nAnother criticism has been the diluting of the importance of \"breaking news\" by the need of 24-hour news channels to fill time, applying the title to soft news stories of questionable importance and urgency (for example, car chases). Others question as to whether the use of the term is excessive, citing occasions when the term is used even though scheduled programming is not interrupted. Some programs, such as HLN's defunct \"Nancy Grace\", used the term for recurring coverage of events which occurred months before, even when criminal trial coverage which may deserve the breaking news tag was not occurring and no new information has developed.\n\nIn June 2013, Fox affiliate WDRB in Louisville, Kentucky gained notice in the television industry for a promo that criticized the broad and constant use of the \"breaking news\" term, explaining that it has been overused as a \"marketing ploy\" by other news-producing stations, who tend to apply the term to stories that are low in urgency and/or relevance. To coincide with the promo, on its website, WDRB posted \"Contracts\" with its viewers and advertisers, with the former list promising to use \"breaking news\" judiciously (applying it to stories that are \"both 'breaking' and 'news'\").\n\n"}
{"id": "26241411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26241411", "title": "Chase's Calendar of Events", "text": "Chase's Calendar of Events\n\nChase's Calendar of Events is an annual American publication, started in 1957 by brothers William (Bill) D. Chase (a journalist and publisher from Michigan), and Harrison V. Chase (a university social scientist from Florida). It includes special events, holidays, federal and state observances, historic anniversaries, and more unusual celebratory traditions. Bill Chase worked as a newspaper librarian and saw a need for \"a single reference source for calendar dates, and for authoritative and current information about various observances throughout the year\".\n\nThe brothers gathered information on events and the first edition of 2,000 copies was printed for 1958. \"It was 32 pages, contained 364 entries and sold for $1\", while recent editions are 752 pages and contain more than 12,000 entries. A promotion sponsored by the US Chamber of Commerce was added in 1958: a pamphlet listed commercial promotions as Special Days, Weeks and Months, and remained in future editions. Contemporary Books in Chicago, Illinois, took over publication in 1983 and the Chases retired in 1987 from compiling the calendar, which is now handled by an in-house staff of editors and researchers. Contemporary Books was acquired by Tribune in 1993 and sold to McGraw-Hill Companies in September 2000. McGraw-Hill sold the property to Rowman and Littlefield Publishing Group in January 2015, where it is now published by Bernan Press, an imprint of RLPG. \nSections of the calendar include \n\n"}
{"id": "21219455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21219455", "title": "Chronology of the Shunzhi reign", "text": "Chronology of the Shunzhi reign\n\nThis is a chronicle of important events that took place under the Shunzhi Emperor of the Qing Dynasty (1636–1912) in what is now China. It spans from the death of his predecessor Hong Taiji (r. 1626–1643) in September 1643, to the emperor's own death on 5 February 1661, seven days into the eighteenth year of the Shunzhi reign period. These dates do not correspond perfectly with the Shunzhi era itself, which started on 8 February 1644—on New Year's Day of the lunisolar year following the emperor's accession—and ended on 17 February 1662 (the last day of the 18th year of Shunzhi), more than one solar year after the emperor's death. The posthumous events related to the Shunzhi Emperor's burial and posthumous cult are also included.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18958074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18958074", "title": "Closure (business)", "text": "Closure (business)\n\nClosure is the term used to refer to the actions necessary when it is no longer necessary or possible for a business or other organization to continue to operate. Closure may be the result of a bankruptcy, where the organization lacks sufficient funds to continue operations, as a result of the proprietor of the business dying, as a result of a business being purchased by another organization (or a competitor) and shut down as superfluous, or because it is the non-surviving entity in a corporate merger. A closure may occur because the purpose for which the organization was created is no longer necessary.\n\nWhile a closure is typically of a business or a non-profit organization, any entity which is created by human beings can be subject to a closure, from a single church to a whole religion, up to and including an entire country if, for some reason, it ceases to exist.\n\nClosures are of two types, voluntary or involuntary. Voluntary closures of organizations are much rarer than involuntary ones, as, in the absence of some change making operations impossible or unnecessary, most operations will continue until something happens that causes a change requiring this situation.\n\nThe most common form of voluntary closure would be when those involved in an organization such as a social club, a band, or other non-profit organization decide to cease operating. Once the organization has paid any outstanding debts and completed any pending operations, closure may simply mean that the organization ceases to exist.\n\nIf an organization has debts that cannot be paid, it may be necessary to perform a liquidation of its assets. If there is anything left after the assets are converted to cash, in the case of a for-profit organization, the remainder is distributed to the stockholders; in the case of a non-profit, by law any remaining assets must be distributed to another non-profit.\n\nIf an organization has more debts than assets, it may have to declare bankruptcy. If the organization is viable, it may reorganizes itself as a result of the bankruptcy and continue operations. If it is not viable for the business to continue operating, then a closure occurs through a bankruptcy liquidation: its assets are liquidated, the creditors are paid from whatever assets could be liquidated, and the business ceases operations.\n\nPossibly the largest \"closure\" in history (but more closely analogous to a demerger) was the split of the Soviet Union into its constituent countries. In comparison, the end of East Germany can be considered a merger rather than a closure as West Germany assumed all of the assets and liabilities of East Germany. The end of the Soviet Union was the equivalent of a closure through a bankruptcy liquidation, because while Russia assumed most of the assets and responsibilities of the former Soviet Union, it did not assume all of them. There have been issues over who is responsible for unpaid parking tickets accumulated by motor vehicles operated on behalf of diplomatic missions operated by the former Soviet Union in other countries, as Russia claims it is not responsible for them.\n\nSeveral major business closures include the bankruptcy of the Penn Central railroad, the Enron scandals, and MCI Worldcom's bankruptcy and eventual merger into Verizon.\n"}
{"id": "2154755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154755", "title": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events", "text": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events\n\nDates of Epoch-Making Events is an entry in The Nuttall Encyclopaedia for its listing of the most important turning points in history, particularly western history. The work's list illustrates western culture's turning points and James Wood's views from the early 20th century. The events are listed as in the original listing, with modern footnotes.\n\nThe events chosen, with few errors, are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38496244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38496244", "title": "Engineering disasters", "text": "Engineering disasters\n\nShortcuts in engineering design can lead to engineering disasters. Engineering is the science and technology used to meet the needs and demands of society. These demands include buildings, aircraft, vessels, and computer software. In order to meet society’s demands, the creation of newer technology and infrastructure must be met efficiently and cost-effectively. To accomplish this, managers and engineers have to have a mutual approach to the specified demand at hand. This can lead to shortcuts in engineering design to reduce costs of construction and fabrication. Occasionally, these shortcuts can lead to unexpected design failures.\n\nIn the field of engineering, the importance of safety is emphasized. Learning from past engineering failures and infamous disasters such as the Challenger explosion brings the sense of reality to what can happen when appropriate safety precautions are not taken. Safety tests such as tensile testing, finite element analysis (FEA), and failure theories help provide information to design engineers about what maximum forces and stresses can be applied to a certain region of a design. These precautionary measures help prevent failures due to overloading and deformation.\n\nFailure occurs when a structure or device has been used past the limits of design that inhibits proper function. If a structure is designed to only support a certain amount of stress, strain, or loading and the user applies greater amounts, the structure will begin to deform and eventually fail. Several factors contribute to failure including a flawed design, improper use, financial costs, and miscommunication.\n\nStatic loading is when a force is applied slowly to an object or structure. Static load tests such as tensile testing, bending tests, and torsion tests help determine the maximum loads that a design can withstand without permanent deformation or failure. Tensile testing is common when calculating a stress-strain curve which can determine the yield strength and ultimate strength of a specific test specimen.\n\nThe specimen is stretched slowly in tension until it breaks, while the load and the distance across the gage length are continuously monitored. A sample subjected to a tensile test can typically withstand stresses higher than its yield stress without breaking. At a certain point, however, the sample will break into two pieces. This happens because the microscopic cracks that resulted from yielding will spread to large scales. The stress at the point of complete breakage is called a material’s ultimate tensile strength. The result is a stress-strain curve of the material's behavior under static loading. Through this tensile testing, the yield strength is found at the point where the material begins to yield more readily to the applied stress, and its rate of deformation increases.\n\nWhen a material undergoes permanent deformation from exposure to radical temperatures or constant loading, the functionality of the material can become impaired. This time–dependent plastic distortion of material is known as creep. Stress and temperature are both major factors of the rate of creep. In order for a design to be considered safe, the deformation due to creep must be much less than the strain at which failure occurs. Once the static loading causes the specimen to surpass this point the specimen will begin permanent, or plastic, deformation.\n\nIn mechanical design, most failures are due to time-varying, or dynamic, loads that are applied to a system. This phenomenon is known as fatigue failure. Fatigue is known as the weakness in a material due to variations of stress that are repeatedly applied to said material. For example, when stretching a rubber band to a certain length without breaking it (i.e. not surpassing the yield stress of the rubber band) the rubber band will return to its original form after release; however, repeatedly stretching the rubber band with the same amount of force thousands of times would create micro-cracks in the band which would lead to the rubber band being snapped. The same principle is applied to mechanical materials such as metals.\n\nFatigue failure always begins at a crack that may form over time or due to the manufacturing process used. The three stages of fatigue failure are: \n\nNote that fatigue does not imply that the strength of the material is lessened after failure. This notion was originally referred to a material becoming \"tired\" after cyclic loading.\n\nEngineering is a precise discipline and in order to be precise, communication among project developers is pertinent for a successful product. There are several forms of miscommunication that can lead to a flawed design in a system. There are various fields of engineering that have to intercommunicate when working toward a mutual goal. These fields include civil, electrical, mechanical, industrial, chemical, biological, and environmental engineering. When creating a modern automobile, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, and environmental engineers are required to work together to produce a fuel-efficient, durable product for consumers. If engineers do not adequately communicate among one another, a potential design could have flaws and be unsafe for consumer purchase. Engineering disasters can be a result of such miscommunication. Such disasters include the 2005 levee failures in Greater New Orleans, Louisiana during Hurricane Katrina, the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster, and the Hyatt Regency walkway collapse.\n\nSoftware has played a role in many high-profile disasters.\n\n\nEngineering products and inventions are utilized everyday including computers, microwaves, and elevators. A broken microwave can have limited consequences; however, when larger projects such as infrastructures and airplanes fail, multiple people can be affected which leads to an engineering disaster. A disaster is defined as a calamity that results in significant damage which may include the loss of life. Large-scale engineering disasters are recorded in the history books. Just like any other mistake, these disasters become reminders and guidelines of how to improve and not repeat the same mistakes. In-depth observations and post-disaster analysis have been documented to a large extent to help prevent similar disasters from occurring.\n\nOn the night of July 17, 1981, in Kansas City, Missouri, United States, two suspended walkways of the Hyatt Regency Hotel collapsed, killing 114 people and injuring 200 more. During this calamity, the hotel was hosting a dance competition. There were numerous competition attendants and observers standing and dancing on the suspended walkways when connections supporting the ceiling rods that hoisted both the second and fourth floor walkways across the atrium failed and collapsed onto the crowded first floor atrium below.\n\nDuring investigation after the walkway collapse, architectural engineer Wayne G. Lischka noticed a substantial alteration of the original design. The fabricator constructed a double-rod support system rather than the originally designed single-rod system without approval of the engineering design team. In doing so, the created support beams doubled the loading on the connector which resulted in the failure of the walkway. It was documented that even the single-rod system would have barely supported the expected load and would not have met Kansas City Building Code standards.\n\nThe final analysis of the damage had several conclusions reported including:\n\nThe Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" disaster occurred on January 28, 1986, when the NASA Space Shuttle orbiter \"Challenger\" (OV-099) (mission STS-51-L) broke apart 73 seconds into its flight, leading to the deaths of its seven crew members. Disintegration of the vehicle began after an O-ring seal in its right solid rocket booster (SRB) failed at liftoff.\n\nThe Space Shuttle Columbia disaster occurred on February 1, 2003, while reentering Earth's atmosphere over Louisiana and Texas. The shuttle unexpectedly disintegrated, resulting in the death of all seven astronauts on board. The cause was later discovered to be damage to thermal shielding tiles from impact with a falling piece of foam insulation of an external tank during launch. It was the seventh known instance of this particular piece breaking free during launch. As the shuttle re-entered Earth's atmosphere at a speed of Mach 23 (28,400km/h ; 17,647mph), the wing experienced temperatures of . The damage from the insulation strike experienced during launch proved fatal as the shuttle disintegrated during the mission return. NASA's investigation team found melted aluminum on the thermal tiles and inside edges of the left wing of the spacecraft, supporting the notion that the Columbia's destruction was due to hot gases that penetrated the damaged spot on the wing.\n\nRoger L.M. Dunbar of New York University and Raghu Garud of Pennsylvania State University procured a case description of what missteps NASA had taken that led to the Columbia spacecraft catastrophe. Mission control deemed that foam shedding was a not a safety factor prior to launch, believed damage of the shuttle panels were not a significant issue which in-turn delayed analysis on damages as of January 17, 2003, and denied mission action request between January 18 and 19. It was not until January 24, 2003, that mission control had classified the damage as a problematic issue. These missteps in communication between mission control and the debris assessment team inhibited a proper examination of the damages to the spacecraft.\n\nEarly Liberty ships suffered hull and deck cracks, and a few were lost to such structural defects. During World War II, there were nearly 1,500 instances of significant brittle fractures. Three of the 2,710 Liberties built broke in half without warning. In cold temperatures the steel hulls cracked, resulting in later ships being constructed using more suitable steel.\n\nOn the night of April 26, 1865, the passenger steamboat Sultana exploded on the Mississippi River seven miles north of Memphis, Tennessee. This maritime disaster is categorized as the worst in United States history. The explosion resulted in the loss of 1,547 lives, surpassing the total number of deaths caused by the sinking of the \"Titanic\". The Sultana was overcrowded due to a soldier prisoner exchange towards the end of the United States Civil War. The overcrowding contributed significantly to the high death toll. Another reason for the high number of deaths is that the steamer was made mostly of wood, which was documented to have been completely engulfed in flames approximately seven minutes after the explosion. The explosion happened around midnight which was when the Mississippi River was at flood stage. It was documented that the single metal lifeboat on board the Sultana was thrown from the upperdeck landing on several people swimming from the steamer resulting in further deaths.\n\nThe disaster was believed to be the result of a repaired boiler explosion that led to the explosion of two of the three other boilers. The boiler had been previously found to have had a leak and was improperly repaired by boilermaker R.G. Taylor due to orders from Captain J. Cass Mason because of time constraints in Vicksburg, Mississippi. While chief engineer Nathan Wintringer approved the repaired boiler, Taylor stated that the boiler could not be considered safe since the boiler appeared to be burned from being worked on with too little water. Traveling along the Mississippi River, the boiler exploded causing fire to spread throughout the steamer. The fire on board led to the collapse of both of the Sultana's smokestacks, killing many passengers. The sultanas captain died with the ship.\n\n"}
{"id": "10061279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10061279", "title": "Event chain methodology", "text": "Event chain methodology\n\nEvent chain methodology is an uncertainty modeling and schedule network analysis technique that is focused on identifying and managing events and relationship between them (event chains) that affect project schedules. Event chain methodology is an extension of quantitative project risk analysis with Monte Carlo simulations. It is the next advance beyond critical path method and critical chain project management. Event chain methodology helps to mitigate the effect of motivational and cognitive biases in estimating and scheduling. It improves accuracy of risk assessment and helps to generate more realistic risk adjusted project schedules.\n\nEvent chain methodology is an extension of traditional Monte Carlo simulation of project schedules where uncertainties in task duration and costs are defined by statistical distribution. For example, task duration can be defined by three point estimates: low, base, and high. The results of analysis is a risk adjusted project schedule, crucial tasks, and probabilities that project will be completed on time and on budget. Defining uncertainties using statistical distribution provide accurate results if there is a reliable historical data about duration and cost of similar tasks in previous projects. Another approach is to define uncertainties using risk events or risk drivers, which can be assigned to different tasks or resources. Information about probabilities and impact of such events is easier to elicit, which improves accuracy of analysis. Risks can be recorded in the Risk register. Event chain methodology was first proposed in the period of 2002-2004. It is fully or partially implemented in a number of software application. Event Chain Methodology is based on six principles and has a number of outcomes.\n\nActivities (tasks) are not a continuous uniform procedure. Tasks are affected by external events, which transform an activity from one state to another. One of the important properties of an event is the moment when an event occurs during the course of an activity. This moment, when an event occurs, in most cases is probabilistic and can be defined using statistical distribution. The original state is called a ground state, other states are called excited states. For example, if the team completes their job on activity, they can move to other activities. The notion of an activity's state is important because certain events can or cannot occur when activity is in certain state. It means that the state of an activity is subscribed to the events. Events can be local, affecting particular tasks or resources, or global affecting all tasks or resources.\n\nEvents can be related to other events, which will create event chains. These event chains can significantly affect the course of the project. \nFor example, requirement changes can cause an activity to be delayed. To accelerate the activity, the project manager allocates a resource from another activity, which then leads to a missed deadline. Eventually, this can lead to the failure of the project. It could be different relationship between events. One event can trigger one or multiple events.\n\nEvents can be correlated with each other without one triggering another one. In this case if one risk has occurred, another one will occur and vice versa. One event assigned in one activity can execute another activity or group of activities. In many cases it the execution of risk response plans. For example, event “structural defect is discovered” can cause one or many activities “Repair”. Events can cause other events to occur either immediately or with a delay. The delay is a property of the event subscription. The delay can be deterministic, but in most cases, it is probabilistic. Also risks can be transferred from one activity to another. To define event chains, we need to identify a \"sender\", the event that initiates the chain of events. The sender event can cause one or more events that effect multiple activities. These are called \"receiver\" events. In turn, the receiver events can also act as sender events.\n\nEvent chain diagram is a visualization that shows the relationships between events and tasks and how the events affect each other. The simplest way to represent these chains is to depict them as arrows associated with certain tasks or time intervals on the Gantt chart. Here are a few important rules:\n\nBy using event chain diagrams to visualize events and event chains, the modeling and analysis of risks and uncertainties can be significantly simplified.\nAnother tool that can be used to simplify the definition of events is a state table. Columns in the state table represent events; rows represent the states of an activity. Information for each event in each state includes four properties of event subscription: probability, moment of event, excited state, and impact of the event.\n\nOnce events and event chains are defined, quantitative analysis using Monte Carlo simulation can be performed to quantify the cumulative effect of the events. Probabilities and impacts of risks assigned to activities are used as input data for Monte Carlo simulation of the project schedule. In most projects it is necessary to supplement the event based variance with uncertainties as distributions related to duration, start time, cost, and other parameters.\n\nIn Event chain methodology, risk can not only affect schedule and cost, but also other parameters such as safety, security, performance, technology, quality, and other objectives. In other words one event can belong to different categories. The result of the analysis would show risk exposure for different categories as well as integrated project risk score for all categories. This integrated project risk score is calculated based on relative weights for each risk category.\n\nMonte Carlo simulation provides the capability, through sensitivity analysis, to identify single or chains of events. These chains of events can be identified by analyzing the correlations between the main project parameters, such as project duration or cost, and the event chains. These are called “critical events” or “critical chains of events”. By identifying critical events or critical chains of events, we can identify strategies to minimize their negative effects: Avoid, Transfer, Mitigate, or Accept. Event and event chain ranking is performed for all risk categories (schedule-related and non-schedule) as part of one process. Integrated risk probability, impact and score can be calculated using weights for each risk category.\n\nMonitoring the activity's progress ensures that updated information is used to perform the analysis. During the course of the project, the probability and time of the events can be recalculated based on actual data. The main reason for performance tracking is forecasting an activity’s duration and cost if an activity is partially completed and certain events are assigned to the activity. Event chain methodology reduces the risk probability and impact automatically based on the percent of work completed. Advanced analysis can be performed using a Bayesian approach. It is possible to monitor the chance that a project will meet a specific deadline. This chance is constantly updated as a result of the Monte Carlo analysis. Critical events and event chains can be different at the various phases of the project\n\nSometimes events can cause the start of an activity that has already been completed. This is a very common scenario for real life projects; sometimes a previous activity must be repeated based on the results of a succeeding activity. Event chain methodology simplifies modeling of these scenarios The original project schedule does not need to be updated, all that is required is to define the event and assign it to an activity that points to the previous activity. In addition, a limit to the number of times an activity can be repeated must be defined.\n\nIf an event or event chain occurs during the course of a project, it may require some risk response effort. \nRisk response plans execution are triggered by events, which occur if an activity is in an excited state. Risk response events may attempt to transform the activity from the excited state to the ground state. Response plans are an activity or group of activities (small schedule) that augment the project schedule if a certain event occurs. The solution is to assign the response plan to an event or event chain. The same response plan can be used for one or more events.\n\nOne potential event is the reassignment of a resource from one activity to another, which can occur under certain conditions. For example, if an activity requires more resources to complete it within a fixed period, this will trigger an event to reallocate the resource from another activity. Reallocation \nof resources can also occur when activity duration reaches a certain deadline or the cost exceeds a certain value. Events can be used to model different situations with resources, e.g. temporary leave, illness, vacations, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3155871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3155871", "title": "Event management", "text": "Event management\n\nThe process of planning and coordinating the event is usually referred to as event planning and which can include budgeting, scheduling, site selection, acquiring necessary permits, coordinating transportation and parking, arranging for speakers or entertainers, arranging decor, event security, catering, coordinating with third party vendors, and emergency plans. Each event is different in its nature so process of planning & execution of each event differs on basis of type of event. \n\nThe events industry now includes events of all sizes from the Olympics down to business breakfast meetings. Many industries, charitable organizations, and interest groups hold events in order to market themselves, build business relationships, raise money, or celebrate achievement.\n\nEvent management might be a tool for strategic marketing and communication, used by companies of every size. Companies can benefit from promotional events as a way to communicate with current and potential customers. For instance, these advertising-focused events can occur as press conferences, promotional events, or product launches.\n\nEvent managers may also use traditional news media in order to target their audience, hoping to generate media coverage which will reach thousands or millions of people. They can also invite their audience to their events and reach them at the actual event.\n\nThe event manager is the person who plans and executes the event, taking responsibility for the creative, technical, and logistical elements. This includes overall event design, brand building, marketing and communication strategy, audio-visual production, script writing, logistics, budgeting, negotiation, and client service.\n\nAn event venue may be an onsite or offsite location. The event manager is usually not responsible for operations at rented event or entertainment venues, but will monitor all aspects of the event on site. Some of the tasks listed in the introduction may pass to the venue, but usually at a cost.\n\nCorporate event managers book event venues to host corporate meetings, conferences, networking events, trade shows, product launches, team building retreats or training sessions in a more tailored environment.\n\nSustainable event management (also known as event greening) is the process used to produce an event with particular concern for environmental, economic, and social issues. Sustainability in event management incorporates socially and environmentally responsible decision making into the planning, organization and implementation of, and participation in, an event. It involves including sustainable development principles and practices in all levels of event organization, and aims to ensure that an event is hosted responsibly. It represents the total package of interventions at an event, and needs to be done in an integrated manner. Event greening should start at the inception of the project, and should involve all the key role players, such as clients, organizers, venues, sub-contractors, and suppliers.\n\nEvent management software companies provide event planners with software tools to handle many common activities such as delegate registration, hotel booking, travel booking, or allocation of exhibition floorspace.\n\nA recent trend in event technology is the use of mobile apps for events. Event mobile apps have a range of uses. They can be used to hold relatively static information such as the agenda, speaker biographies, and general FAQs. They can also encourage audience participation and engagement through interactive tools such as live voting/polling, submitting questions to speakers during Q&A, or building live interactive \"word clouds\". Mobile event apps can also be used by event organisers as a means of communication. Organisers can communicate with participants through the use of alerts, notifications, and push messages. They can also be used to collect feedback from the participants through the use of surveys in app. Going a step further, some mobile event apps can also help participants to engage with each other, with sponsors, and with the organisers with built-in networking functionality.\n\nThere are an increasing number of universities which offer courses in event management, including diplomas and graduate degrees. In addition to these academic courses, there are many associations and societies that provide courses on the various aspects of the industry. Study includes organizational skills, technical knowledge, public relations, marketing, advertising, catering, logistics, decor, glamor identity, human relations, study of law and licenses, risk management, budgeting, and the study of allied industries like television, other media, and several other areas. Certification can be acquired from various sources to obtain designations such as \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1647073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647073", "title": "Event videography", "text": "Event videography\n\nEvent videography is a video production, the art of capturing social and special events onto video by a videographer. The term is used to describe the videography of any event, aside from weddings and wedding videography.\n\nEvent videography is an offshoot of wedding videography and encompasses the video documentation of social functions, such as First Communions, anniversaries, dance recitals, bar mitzvahs, color guard contests, proms, concerts, etc.\n\nEvent videography started shortly after the introduction of consumer-based video cameras, or camcorders, in the late 1970s, as videographers, who had businesses documenting weddings, began to look for other markets to offer their services.\n\nThe art of event videography is somewhat similar today as it was back when the camcorder was first introduced. The main differences lie in the improved video camera technology and equipment. Advances in high definition technology are being applied to event videography.\n\n"}
{"id": "360984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360984", "title": "Jessica McClure", "text": "Jessica McClure\n\nJessica McClure Morales (born March 26, 1986) became famous on October 14, 1987, at the age of 18 months after she fell into a well in her aunt's backyard in Midland, Texas. Between that day and October 16, rescuers worked for 56 hours to free her from the well casing below the ground. The story gained worldwide attention (leading to some criticism as a media circus), and later became the subject of a 1989 ABC television movie \"\".\n\nMcClure's rescue proved to be a much more difficult ordeal than was first anticipated. Within hours of beginning the emergency procedure, the Midland Fire and Police Departments devised a plan that involved drilling another shaft parallel to the well and then drilling a tunnel at a right angle across to it. Enlisting the help of a variety of local (often out-of-work) oil-drillers, the Midland officials had hoped to free McClure in minutes. However, the first workers to arrive on the scene found their tools barely adequate to penetrate the hard rock around the well. It took about six hours to drill the shaft and longer to drill the tunnel, because the jackhammers used were designed for drilling downward, rather than sideways. A mining engineer eventually arrived to help supervise and coordinate the rescue effort. TV viewers watched as paramedics and rescuers, drilling experts and contractors worked tirelessly to save the baby's life. Meanwhile, they were reassured when they heard Jessica singing “Winnie the Pooh” from deep in the well. As long as she was still singing, they knew she was still alive. Forty-five hours after McClure fell into the well, the shaft and tunnel were finally completed.\n\nThe relatively new technology of waterjet cutting, used to cut through the hard rock surrounding the well, was a vital part of the rescue.\n\nRon Short, a muscular roofing contractor who was born without collar bones because of cleidocranial dysostosis and so could collapse his shoulders to work in cramped corners, arrived at the site and offered to go down the shaft. They considered his offer, but did not use it. One report said that he helped to clear tunneling debris away.\n\nMidland Fire Department paramedic Robert O'Donnell was ultimately able to inch his way into the tunnel and wrestle McClure free from the confines of the well, handing her to fellow paramedic Steve Forbes, who carried her up to safety.\n\nCNN was on the scene with around-the-clock coverage of the rescue effort. This massive media saturation of the ordeal prompted then-President Ronald Reagan to state that \"everybody in America became godmothers and godfathers of Jessica while this was going on.\"\n\nFrom the beginning and throughout the incident, the switchboard of local media outlet KMID-TV was flooded with telephone calls from news organizations and private individuals around the world, seeking the latest information on rescue efforts. In some cases, they shared their own insight into this and similar incidents.\n\nIn 1988, McClure and her parents appeared on \"Live with Regis and Kathie Lee\" to talk about the incident.\n\nThe photograph of McClure being rescued fetched the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Photography to Scott Shaw of the \"Odessa American\".\n\nABC made a television movie of the story in 1989, \"\", starring Patty Duke and Beau Bridges. It featured many participants in the actual rescue and its coverage as extras.\n\nOn May 30, 2007, \"USA Today\" ranked McClure number 22 on its list of \"25 lives of indelible impact.\"\n\nFollowing McClure's rescue on October 16, 1987, surgeons had to amputate a toe due to gangrene from loss of circulation while she was in the well. She also has a scar on her forehead where her head rubbed against the well casing. She had 15 surgeries over the years and has no first-hand memory of the event. Her parents divorced a few years after the rescue.\n\nParamedic Robert O'Donnell, battling posttraumatic stress disorder as a result of the arduous rescue effort and struggling to cope with the abrupt decline of the fame and recognition that had been lavished on him following his heroic act, committed suicide in 1995.\n\nMcClure graduated from Greenwood High School, in a small community near Midland, in May 2004. On January 28, 2006, nineteen-year-old McClure married Daniel Morales at Church of Christ in Notrees, Texas, about 40 miles from Midland. They met at a day care center where she worked with his sister. They have two children, a boy born 2007 and a girl born 2009.\n\nWhen McClure turned 25 on March 26, 2011, she received a trust fund of donations worth up to $800,000. Her father said she had discussed setting up a trust fund for the college education of her children. It had earlier helped in the purchase of her present home, which is less than from the site of the incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163678", "title": "Kalimantaan", "text": "Kalimantaan\n\nKalimantaan is a novel by C. S. Godshalk offering a fictionalized account of the exploits of James Brooke in Sarawak in Borneo.\n\nThe novel uses of a variety of writing forms, including diary entries, letters, and straight narrative to tell its story. The author intentionally makes it difficult to determine what \"really\" happens in the story from dreams and fantasies of the characters.\n\nIn 1839, an English adventurer arrived on the northwest coast of Borneo, commissioned to deliver a letter of gratitude to the Sultan of Brunei for having safely returned the crew of a British merchantman, lost on his coast. It was a region full of headhunters, pirate tribes, and slave traders. Most Europeans with the temerity to enter the region had never been heard from again. This particular adventurer, however, seems to know how to play one power against another and manages to keep his balance in the midst of chaos. After performing a service for the Sultan (resolving a local tribal conflict through the use of his schooner's guns and leading an organized assault on a small native river fort), he is named governor of Sarawak, subject to the Sultan of Brunei. Within a few years, he has become the Rajah of Sarawak, an independent state, and established a dynasty that will last one hundred years.\n\nGodshalk has changed names and details while evoking a sense of the time, place, and atmosphere of the real events. The real adventurer was James Brooke; Ms. Godshalk's is named Gideon Barr. James Brooke's schooner was named the \"Royalist\"; Gideon Barr's is the \"Carolina\" (named after his mother). James Brooke was succeeded by his nephew, Charles Johnson, who took the last name Brooke. Gideon Barr is succeeded by his nephew Richard Hogg (Ms. Godshalk does not deal with the change of last name since her story focuses on Gideon's life and ends with his death).\n\nAlthough many of the events described actually took place, one cannot simply change the names and read the novel as history. James Brooke's mother died in 1844, two years after he became Rajah. Gideon's mother dies in Borneo much earlier while he is in grade school in England, providing him an emotional link to Borneo James Brooke did not have. James Brooke never married a European, although there is evidence that he was married to a Malay woman. Gideon Barr marries an Englishwoman to provide himself an \"air of permanence\" as Rajah and we see much of the later portion of the story through Amelia Barr's eyes. Amelia Barr is fictional, but largely based on Margaret Brooke, wife of the second Rajah, and her book \"My Life in Sarawak\". Gideon also maintains a Malayan mistress who provides a note of tragedy in the way her presence poisons Gideon and Amelia's relationship.\n\nOn the other hand, the 30,000 pounds that Brooke/Barr inherited at his father's death which enabled him to acquire his schooner, the massacre of the sons of the Sultan of Brunei, the Chinese insurrection of 1857, and the commission of inquiry in Singapore all took place as described. The inquiry in Singapore was concerned with the battle of Labuan in which Brooke/Barr led British warships in a pre-emptive strike against a pirate fleet, breaking the power of the Bugis for the next twenty years. Brooke/Barr's enemies attempted to use this against him by claiming he had used British naval power to slaughter innocent natives.\n\nGodshalk uses Malay words extensively in the book. While she provides a brief Malay glossary as an appendix, it does not cover all the words she uses. Enjoyment of \"Kalimantaan\" will be enhanced if one knows the following Malay words which are not in the glossary provided by the author:\n\n\"Kampilan\", actually a Filipino word, designates a long native sword.\n\n"}
{"id": "57713358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57713358", "title": "Killing of José Rodríguez", "text": "Killing of José Rodríguez\n\nOn 10 October 2012, at the Mexico–United States border near Nogales, Arizona, U.S. Border Patrol agent Lonnie Swartz fired 16 shots at José Antonio Elena Rodríguez, killing him, on the grounds that young men threw rocks at him and other law enforcement agents.\n\nAfter the incident, the law enforcement agencies stated the Mexican civilians were trying to stop them from confiscating a shipment of contraband drugs as well as moving immigrants across the border.\n\nRodriguez was hit 10 times by the patrol officer's shots.\n\nAround 11:30 p.m. on Wednesday 10 October, 2012, John Zuñiga, a police officer in Nogales, Arizona, received a call reporting \"suspicious activity\" on International Street, a road running directly along the border. Getting to the scene, Zuñiga heard from another police officer from Nogales, Quinardo Garci, that two men carrying \"bundles taped to their backs\" had climbed the fence into the United States. Identifying the bundles, on the basis of similar incidents in the past, as most probably containing marijuana, they called out for back up.\n\nAfter several Border Patrol and Customs agents arrived, they saw the two men scaling the fence back into Mexico, empty-handed and with nothing on their backs. They commanded the two men to climb back down. At that time, Garcia and Zuñiga stated in their reports that they saw \"rocks flying through the air\" at the assorted agents and also heard \"gunfire,\" although they were unable to identify its source. \n\nIn the days following the incident, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency stated that\n\nThe person hit was José Antonio Elena Rodríguez, a 16-year old resident of Nogales, Mexico. He was unarmed, standing on the Mexican side of the border on a sidewalk on Calle Internacional street, in front of a doctor’s office, below a sign reading \"Medical Emergencies\" in Spanish. He was hit from behind by 10 bullets. The autopsy revealed that gunshot wounds to the head, lungs, and arteries killed him. \n\nU.S. Border Patrol agent Lonnie Ray Swartz was charged with second degree murder for the killing of José Rodríguez. It was the first time a US law enforcement officer was brought up on charges related to a killing that took part across the US-Mexican border, despite there having been a number of similar incidents in the preceding decade. \n\nIn the trial, which began in late 2015 at the Evo A. DeConcini U.S. Courthouse, the defendant claimed he had used deadly force because Rodriguez \"had been throwing rocks.\" Although a witness testified that Rodríguez was not throwing rocks at the law enforcement officers, evidence showed that he was, along with other youths and men. Prosecutors acknowledged that Rodríguez was throwing rocks across the border but stated \"he did not deserve to die\" for this. The U.S. Customs and Border Protection refused to release surveillance-camera footage of the incident.\n\nAfter the testimony by Emma Lew, the director of the medical examiner in Miami-Dade County, Florida, who stated that Swartz's first shot \"likely hit the boy in the middle of his back as he was running,\" the prosecution rested its case in the trial on 5 April 2018.\n\nOn 23 April 2018, Swartz was acquitted of the charge for second-degree murder; the jury was deadlocked on lesser charges. \nThe judge presiding on the trial, Raner Collins, declared a mistrial. The head of the Tucson union for Border Patrol officers, stated, after the jury's decision was announced, that \"justice was properly served\" and that the union was \"pretty happy with it.\" \n\nAfter the jury's decision was reported in the news, protesters gathered outside the federal courthouse in downtown Tucson late Monday afternoon, and blocked off the intersection in front of it. Among those participating in the protest was the mother of Carlos LaMadrid, another Mexican teen who, in 2011, had been shot and killed by Border Patrol agents.\n\nA 2015 review by the Border Patrol's internal affairs department reviewed 67 shooting incidents that resulted in 19 people dying, during the period from January 2010 through October 2012. The review found agents guilty of criminal conduct in 3 of the incidents. Two agents faced disciplinary action in the form of an \"oral reprimand.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14266112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14266112", "title": "Latent human error", "text": "Latent human error\n\nA latent human error is a human error which is likely to be made due to systems or routines that are formed in such a way that humans are disposed to making these errors. Latent human error is a term used in safety work and accident prevention, especially in aviation.\n\nBy gathering data about errors made, then collating, grouping and analyzing them, it can be determined whether a disproportionate amount of similar errors are being made. If this is the case, a contributing factor may be disharmony between the respective systems/routines and human nature or propensities. The routines or systems can then be analyzed, potential problems identified, and amendments made if necessary, in order to prevent future errors, incidents or accidents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40979521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40979521", "title": "Leander Tomarkin", "text": "Leander Tomarkin\n\nLeander William Tomarkin (13 December 1895 – 1967) was a Swiss impostor who claimed to possess a doctorate in medicine, as well as to have invented a miracle medicine for the cure of typhus, tuberculosis, meningitis, and malaria. He ascended to become the personal physician of Victor Emmanuel, king of Italy, and he convinced Albert Einstein to become patron of a conference organised by him.\n\nLeander Tomarkin was born on 13 December 1895 in Zollikon, Switzerland. A doctor's son, he was the black sheep of the family, obtaining bad results at school and dropping a chemistry degree at college. He also soon developed a reputation of dishonesty. He did not take up regular employment but spent his time in his father's laboratory, hoping to invent something.\n\nTomarkin rose to fame when he offered to cure Pope Benedict XV pneumonia in January 1922. The Pope died without Tomarkin being allowed to treat him but reporters subsequently picked up the story and enabled the progress of Tomarkin's medical career with publicising his \"Antimicrobum tomarkin\" medicine, whose active ingredient he named \"Aminoortobenzoilsulfoisoamiloidrocupronucleinforminsodico\". The Antimicrobum was to reduce pneumonia mortality from about one third to 2%. Tomarkin was allowed to treat a cousin of Victor Emmanuel III of Italy, and the cousin recovered. As a result the king named Tomarkin the personal physician of the family. A clinical test at the Santo Spirito hospital in Rome was also successful, later attributed to the better care for test patient and the relatively early stage of pneumonia that the patients were in.\n\nIn May 1924 Tomarkin emigrated to the United States, and three years later founded Tomarkin-Foundation Chemistry Research. At this research centre he developed \"Catalysan\" and \"Disulphamin\", claiming that these medicines bring about mood changes and treat sickness in that way. The Tomarkin Foundation soon spread to Europe. Its dependency in Locarno started to organise conferences between 1930 and 1938. These conferences were set beautifully and had rich side programs and thus attracted prominent people such as surgeon Ferdinand Sauerbruch. In 1931 Albert Einstein assumed the honorary presidency of the conference. Einstein only stayed in that position for one year, after a former landlady of Tomarkin contacted him to help retrieve debts.\n\nAt the onset of World War II Tomarkin again emigrated to the US, due to his Jewish ancestry. With the development of industrially manufactured antibiotics in 1939 his medical invention became obsolete. He ventured into other areas, trying to invent waterproof paint and synthetic diamonds but was unsuccessful with both. Tomarkin died in 1967.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34258585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258585", "title": "Let's Do It! World", "text": "Let's Do It! World\n\nLet's Do It! World is a global civic movement that started from Estonia, asking people worldwide to join a series of local, national and regional clean-up events. Among other projects, it is the founder of World Cleanup Day.\n\nThe Let's Do It! movement was first conceived in Estonia in year 2008, where a country clean-up action called Let's do it! (in Estonian: \"Teeme Ära!\") cleaned up 10,000 tons of illegal waste by more than 50,000 volunteers in one day. Following Estonia's lead many countries also started their own country clean-up events. In 2011 a new initiative called Let's do it! World was started with the aim of promoting massive clean-ups from 24 March 2012 till 15 September 2012. After a successful World Cleanup 2012 project the next bigger goal is to have World Cleanup Day in 2018.\n\nToday, the movement has grown into a network of 113 countries. All together, 14 million participants have been engaged in movement's activities.\n\nLet's Do It! World is an accredited member of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).\n\nSince 2017, the movement uses W sign aka Three Fingers Up as a symbol. \n\nOn the 3rd of May 2008 over 50,000 people came out of their homes to clean up Estonia, the rest followed the process via all the media channels. That's 4% out of a population of 1,3 million - which would equal 15,3 million in the USA or 57 million in India. The idea spread from Estonia to the whole Europe and beyond. Next spring, in 2009, Latvia and Lithuania cleaned their countries with more than 250,000 people participating and have done it henceforth for three years, engaging more people each year. On 20 March 2010 Portugal cleaned their country with 200,000 people. Slovenia followed shortly, breaking all records with 270,000 people (which is 13% of the overall population of the country) taking part in the action. In the beginning of June the same year, Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine was cleaned. By the end of 2011 more than 2.5 million people have participated in Let’s Do It! cleanup actions in 16 countries – Estonia, India, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, Cambodia, Russia, Hungary and Brazil.\n\nIn 2012, starting from 24 March until 25 September, a series of cleanups happened around the globe, on all continents, bringing together millions of volunteers in 96 countries. The action was initiated on 24 March 2012 by volunteers in Slovenia and Portugal.\n\nTo bring together doers and initiators and share existing experience – Let's Do It! teams were organizing workshops and regional gatherings, introducing the World Cleanup 2012 around the world. Each group or organisation was leading the cleanup action in their country.\nAfter a successful World Cleanup 2012 project, the network set more ambitious goals. During the Let's Do It! Clean World Conference held in Prishtina, Kosovo on the 6th-9th of February 2014, it was agreed, that the aim of the global movement is to clean up the whole World from illegally dumped solid waste and to then keep the planet clean. To reach the essential transformation in the global society, the leaders of country cleanups set the ambitious goal to involve 380 million people by 2018. According to Let's Do It! World, this is around 5% of the world’s population and is estimated to be the amount to create a lasting change.\n\nThe most massive cleanup actions (data: October 2014) within the movement have happened in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Kosovo and in Albania.\n\nIn 2012, 289,000 Slovenians came out of the homes and cleaned up the entire country in just one day. This is 14% of the country's population.\n\nIn 2013, 375,000 cleaned up the country in Bulgaria in a one-day country cleanup action (13,9% of country's population).\n\nIn 2012, 210,000 people (10% of country's population) cleaned up Latvia from illegal waste in just one day.\n\nIn 2013, a massive civic cleanup action also took place in Kosovo, bringing together 132,000 people (7% of the population) and in the same year, Albania also had a massive cleanup action, uniting 147,000 people (5,25%) to clean up the country in just one day.\n\nIn 2015, 250,000 people (8,6% of country's population) cleaned up Lithuania from illegal waste in one day.\n\nIn 2015, over 500,000 people participated in Let's Do It! actions in Ukraine cleaning up illegal dump-sites around the country. \n\nAround 15 millions people in 158 countries took part on the World Clean Up Day, the 15th of September 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1040867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040867", "title": "List of ICON science fiction conventions", "text": "List of ICON science fiction conventions\n\nICON is the name of at least five science fiction conventions. In order of seniority, these are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10150504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10150504", "title": "List of auto shows and motor shows by continent", "text": "List of auto shows and motor shows by continent\n\nAn auto show (also: motor show or car show) is a public exhibition of current automobile models, debuts, concept cars, or out-of-production classics. The five most prestigious auto shows, sometimes called the \"Big Five\", are generally considered to be held in Frankfurt, Geneva, Detroit, Paris and Tokyo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104985", "title": "List of events named massacres", "text": "List of events named massacres\n\nThe following is a list of events for which one of the commonly accepted names includes the word \"massacre.\"\n\n\"Massacre\" is defined in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" as \"the indiscriminate and brutal slaughter of people or (less commonly) animals; carnage, butchery, slaughter in numbers\". It also states that the term is used \"in the names of certain massacres of history\".\nThe first recorded use in English of the word \"massacre\" in the name of an event is due to Christopher Marlow who in c. 1600 referred to what is now known as the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre as \"The massacre at Paris\"\n\nThe purpose of the list is to trace such of the term \"massacre\" specifically.\nThere are many alternative terms with similar connotations, such as butchery, carnage, bloodbath, mass killing, atrocity, etc. as well as euphemisms such as \"Vespers\", \"Blutgericht\" or \"attack\", \"incident\", \"tragedy\" (etc.), use of which are outside the scope of this list.\n\"Massacre\" is also used figuratively to describe dramatic events that did not involve any deaths, such as the \"Hilo massacre\" and the \"Saturday Night Massacre\"; this usage is also outside of the scope of this list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29752766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29752766", "title": "List of fan conventions by date of founding", "text": "List of fan conventions by date of founding\n\nThe list of modern fan conventions for various genres of entertainment extends to the first conventions held in the 1930s. \n\nSome fan historians claim that the 1936 Philadelphia Science Fiction Conference, a.k.a. Philcon, was the first science fiction convention ever held. Others, such as Fred Patten and Rob Hansen, make this claim for the January 1937 event in Leeds, England, organized by the Leeds Science Fiction League, which was specifically organised as a conference, with a program and speakers. Out of this came the first incarnation of the British Science Fiction Association.\n\nWhile a few conventions were created in various parts of the world within the period between 1935-1960, the number of convention establishments increased slightly in the 1960s and then increased dramatically in the 1970s, with many of the largest conventions in the modern era being established during the latter decade. Impeti for further establishment of local fan conventions include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855237", "title": "List of hoaxes", "text": "List of hoaxes\n\nThe following are lists of hoaxes:\n\nThese are some claims that have been revealed, or proven definitively, to be deliberate public hoaxes. This list does not include hoax articles published on or around April 1, a long list of which can be found in the \"List of April Fools' Day jokes\" article.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Proven hoaxes of exposure\" are semi-comical or private sting operations. They usually encourage people to act foolishly or credulously by falling for patent nonsense that the hoaxer deliberately presents as reality. See also \"culture jamming\".\n\n\nDeliberate hoaxes, or journalistic fraud, that drew widespread attention include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "942315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=942315", "title": "List of peasant revolts", "text": "List of peasant revolts\n\nThis is a chronological list of conflicts in which peasants played a significant role.\n\nHistory of peasant wars spans over a period of over two thousand years. A variety of reasons fueled the emergence of the peasant revolt phenomenon, including:\n\n\nLater peasant revolts such as the Telangana Rebellion were also influenced by agrarian socialist ideologies.\n\nThe majority of peasant rebellions ended prematurely and were unsuccessful. Peasants suffered from limited funding and lacked the training and organisational capabilities of professional armies.\n\nThe list gives the name, the date, the peasant allies and enemies, and the result of these conflicts following this legend:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1681795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681795", "title": "Local news", "text": "Local news\n\nIn journalism, local news refers to coverage of events, by the news, in a local context that would not be an interest of another locality, or otherwise be of national or international scope. Local news, in contrast to national or international news, caters to the news of their regional and local communities; they focus on more localized issues and events. Some key features of local newsrooms includes regional politics, business, and human interest stories. Local news readership has been declining in recent years, according to a recent study.\n\nOpt-outs of local television news are frequent before, during, or after national evening news television programming. Often times, television networks can also commission or make provisions for their local stations to produce a longer standalone local news programmes. In some cases, local television markets/viewing areas within a country may even have a dedicated 24-hour local news channel. Local news stations have also started covering less and less local politics in favor of stories that they believe will garner more clicks or attention. A study has also shown that there has also been less investigative journalism within local news stations in recent years.\n\nLocal news largely covers the following:\n\nNational and international news, however, tend to cover a wider range of content, including news concerning specialized institutions of wide-ranging international power or influence, such as:\n\nIn the United States, local news is provided on local commercial broadcasting channels (some of which are television network affiliates). They can either be standalone newscasts that run for at least a half-hour or short segments that air attached to national morning newscasts approximately 25 and 55 minutes past the hour. As not all stations are owned and operated by a television network, the graphics, branding, and studio designs of a station's newscasts often differ from the network they are affiliated with although in recent years, affiliates have made some form of on-air reference to their corresponding networks in the branding of their newscasts. In addition, the local news departments of stations also superimpose their on-screen digital clocks, thermometers, and (occasionally) local news tickers on graphics provided by networks during morning network newscasts. Some cable channels are dedicated to local news coverage. Examples of this include NY1 in New York and NewsChannel 8 in the Washington DC market.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, most local news is provided on a local network station with similar branding and studio design to that of the national network news. Examples of this include the nationally networked BBC News and its regional news services such as BBC North West Tonight (on BBC North West) and BBC Newsline (on BBC Northern Ireland); the nationally networked ITV News and its regional stations including ITV Granada and UTV. The long version of BBC and ITV's local news shows often air during the 18:00 hour on weekday evenings. STV, which simulcasts most of the ITV network's programmes in Scotland, is not owned and operated by ITV but has its own branded newscast that broadcasts Scottish-centred news at the same time as ITV's regional news services.\n\nIn France, most local news is aired on France Televisions' France 3. Additionally BFM TV also has a local news channel for the Ile-de-France region called BFM Paris.\n\nNorway's public broadcaster, NRK1, airs a local news programme called NRK Distriktsnyheter (name of viewing area) every weekday evening at 18:45 Central European Time, just before the main national newscast Dagsrevyen. A replay of all local newscasts across the country is shown on NRK2 the following morning (Tuesday to Saturday).\n\nIn Sweden, SVT's regional news is simply called SVT Nyheter (name of viewing area) which shares the same branding as the network's main newscast, Rapport. Unlike SVT's counterparts in the US and UK, during morning programmes, the local news opt-out airs in the middle of each half-hour. Since June 2007, the morning regional cut-ins no longer feature an in-studio presenters but instead show compiled short reports from various correspondents across the region. When SVT World was still airing, the simulcast of the morning programme featured a different regional opt-out during each half-hour. A 13-minute standalone local newscast airs at 18:30 Central European Time each weekday evening after Sportnytt (SVT's sport news) on SVT1. Additionally, a short local news segment is incorporated into SVT's other evening newscast Aktuellt which airs on SVT2. In that case, this local news segment shares the same branding and graphics as Aktuellt. There are no local SVT newscasts on Saturdays.\n\nA lot of newspapers specialise in covering the cities they are based in. Although paper copies of local newspapers are usually sold and circulated exclusively in the local areas they operate (with entities such as libraries or relatives wanting a copy of the paper where a family member is mentioned being mailed copies of outside of circulation areas), companies may make digital copies of their newspapers available to interested readers directly on their website or through services such as PressReader often with a paid subscription.\n\nIn the United States, although newspapers such as \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\" have a 'national' focus on their front pages, they still have dedicated sections for news in the areas they are based in. Weather sections also highlight conditions in the local area and the sport sections feature local teams alongside national sport stories. Their local editions also feature local classified ads.\n\nIn the age of digital media, local news readership has started to fall. This can be attributed to the younger generation's disinterest in traditional news sources and the inability of news stations to fully integrate their business models and practices into the age of digital journalism. While national and international news industries began using Twitter as a way to break news and interact with their audiences, local news mediums have fallen behind, trending towards using Twitter as a secondary source for spreading information rather than a primary tool for audience engagement.\n\nSince Internet sites reach a larger audience, more local news agencies have started their own websites to compete in the digital age. Websites are a great way for local news stations to produce more interactive content, which engages the audiences and increases readership.\n\nAside from the Internet, Twitter specifically has become a great way to engage the younger generation in news, gain more readership, and spread information. National news sources have started using Twitter to quickly notify the public of breaking news and to interact with their readers, but local news have failed to integrate Twitter and other forms of social media into their journalism practices as successfully. While local TV news stations have actually been a bit more effective with using social media, local newspapers have overall fallen behind. By engaging the audience and spreading important information, social media has been considered a solid method for strengthening the core standards of journalism. As a result, social media like Twitter has become a vital tool for news agencies to incorporate into their everyday practices.\n\nAs a result of the transition to digital content, local news agencies have had to change their business models. Although they previously gained revenue from subscriptions, more agencies have started making money from online advertising, but this only accounts for a small portion of revenue. This loss in revenue has been linked to a decline in local journalistic integrity, because with less profit, the need to make money through clickbait articles has become a necessity.\n\n"}
{"id": "54318764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54318764", "title": "Lynne Patton", "text": "Lynne Patton\n\nLynne Martine Patton (born 1973 or 1974) is an American event planner, who was designated in June 2017 by President Donald Trump to head Region II of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees New York and New Jersey. \n\nShe previously worked as an event planner for the Trump family, including planning the wedding of Eric Trump, and helping to run the Eric Trump Foundation. She was a speaker at the 2016 Republican National Convention.\n\nPatton grew up in New Haven, Connecticut. Her father is epidemiologist Curtis L. Patton, who was a professor (now emeritus) at Yale University.\n\nPatton graduated from the University of Miami with a B.A. in English literature. She attended the Quinnipiac University School of Law; school officials have stated that she was a student for only two semesters, and did not graduate. On her LinkedIn page, Patton also claims affiliation with Yale University, which she did not attend.\n\nAn Eric Trump Foundation staff biography of Patton states that she was involved in casting the 2012 and 2014 seasons of \"The Celebrity Apprentice\".\n\nPatton was one of 16 unpaid directors at the Eric Trump Foundation, though her position did not appear in the Foundation's 2014 tax filings. Her HUD financial disclosures stated that she had been a vice president and a board member at the Eric Trump Foundation from January 2009 to January 2017, and she speaks of being with the Trump family since 2009.\n\nIn May 2016, during Donald Trump's 2016 Presidential campaign, Patton narrated a YouTube video called \"The Trump Family I Know – A Black Female Trump Executive Speaks Out,\" in which she defended Trump against accusations that he was racist. She spoke at the 2016 Republican National Convention; the official convention program listed her position as \"Vice President of The Eric Trump Foundation and Senior Assistant to Eric Trump, Ivanka Trump, and Donald Trump, Jr.\" In her convention speech, she acknowledged historical racism, but said that Donald Trump knows that black lives, LGBTQ lives, veterans' lives, and police lives matter. Later in the campaign, Patton joined other campaign spokeswomen on the Trump-Pence Women's Empowerment Tour.\n\nShe is a director of National Diversity Coalition for Trump.\n\nBeginning in January 2017, Patton served as a White House liaison and Director of Public Liaison for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. Since the Trump Organization co-owns some properties that receive federal rental subsidies from HUD, her position raised questions of conflict of interest.\n\nBeginning in July 5, 2017, Patton is to head Region II. She has no reported experience with housing policy. Congressional Representatives Grace Meng and Nydia Velázquez, both Democrats from New York, publicly urged the administration to reconsider the appointment.\n\nIn January 2018, Patton called April Ryan, the White House correspondent and Washington bureau chief for American Urban Radio Networks, \"Miss Piggy\". Patton later apologized.\n\nIn September 2018, Patton mocked sexual allegations against Supreme Court justice nominee Brett Kavanaugh. That same month, she also falsely claimed that CNN host Anderson Cooper had faked a live shot.\n\nPatton says she has struggled with substance abuse and addiction, and publicly praised the Trump family for standing by her through tough times.\n"}
{"id": "58637916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58637916", "title": "Marlboro M hoax", "text": "Marlboro M hoax\n\nThe Marlboro M Hoax was a false rumor originating from satire news website \"Abril Uno\" on April 1, 2016. It was an April Fools joke.\n\nThe article claims that Philip Morris, owner of the Marlboro tobacco company, is introducing a new line of marijuana cigarettes called Marlboro M in Colorado and the state of Washington. While fake, the article does have some factual basis, as tobacco companies have shown interest in marijuana since the 1970's. Even though the article was quite obviously satire, it's intriguing title was able to make it around the internet before it could be disproved. Some users, upon discovering that there were no 'Marlboro M' cigarettes at their local dispensary, claimed that they would be in stock by the end of 2017.\n\nWhile the article was proven fake, its claims were able gain widespread belief because of past and current events in cannabis culture, which themselves were true. For example, it is true that tobacco companies, including Phillip Morris, were interested in marijuana as a competing product and potentially an addition to their company, long before rapid legalization came about. Legalization is also a contributing factor to the blind acceptance these claims received, as societal views on marijuana use have largely shifted in recent years. Some tobacco companies have actually began investing in medical marijuana research, as well as joining with marijuana seed investment firms, though they haven't gone as far is to introduce cannabis cigarettes into the market. Currently, it would be illegal for such a large company, such as Philip Morris, to introduce cannabis cigarettes, as its use is still illegal on the federal level (in the US). \n"}
{"id": "1016832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1016832", "title": "Media monitoring service", "text": "Media monitoring service\n\nA media monitoring service, a press clipping service or a clipping service as known in earlier times, provides clients with copies of media content, which is of specific interest to them and subject to changing demand; what they provide may include documentation, content, analysis, or editorial opinion, specifically or widely. These services tend to specialize their coverage by subject, industry, size, geography, publication, journalist, or editor. The printed sources, which could be readily monitored, greatly expanded with the advent of telegraphy and submarine cables in the mid- to late-19th century; the various types of media now available proliferated in the 20th century, with the development of radio, television, the photocopier and the World Wide Web. Though media monitoring is generally used for capturing content or editorial opinion, it also may be used to capture advertising content.\n\nMedia monitoring services have been variously termed over time, as new players entered the market, new forms of media were created, and as new uses from available content developed. An existing group may provide such a monitoring service, as it relates to their main purpose, while a monitoring agency generally provides such as their main business. Alternative terms for these monitoring services as well as the information they provide include:\n\n\nSince mass media traditionally was limited solely to print media, naturally the monitoring was also limited to these media. The world's first press clipping agency was established in London in 1852 by a Polish newsagent named Romeike. Actors, writers, musicians and artists would visit his shop to look for articles about themselves in his Continental stock. It was then that Romeike realised that he could turn this into a profitable business. \n\nAn agency named \"L'Argus de la presse\" was established in Paris in 1879 by Alfred Cherie, who offered a press-clipping service to Parisian actors, enabling them to buy reviews of their work rather than purchasing the whole newspaper.\n\nAs radio and later television broadcasting were introduced in the 20th century, press clipping agencies began to expand their services into the monitoring of these broadcast media, and this task was greatly facilitated by the development of commercial audio and video tape recording systems in the 1950s and 1960s. With the growth of the Internet in the 1990s, media monitoring service extended their services to the monitoring of online information sources using new digital search and scan technologies to provide output of interest to their clients.\n\nThen, in 1998, the now defunct WebClipping website was the first firm to start monitoring Internet based news media, moving the industry toward tracking digital news quickly.\n\nTypically, individual or organisational clients – e. g. private companies and corporations, charities, government departments and ministries – will subscribe to a media monitoring service to keep track of what is being said about them, their field of operations, their competitors, or other specified topics of interest.\n\nThe news monitoring industry provides government agencies, corporations, public relations professionals, and other organizations access to news information created by the media. Generally monitoring print, broadcast, and internet content for any mention of specific subjects of interest, a news monitoring company will analyze and provide feedback to their client in the form of press clippings, monitoring reports, and media analysis.\n\nFrom a cut & clip service, media clipping today has expanded to incorporate technology with information. Media monitoring clients can now opt to include print, broadcast and online to capture all their media exposure. While this technology has allowed some of the process to be automated, many media monitoring agencies still offer the services of trained professionals to review and validate results.\n\nService delivery happens at three fronts. Clients may get their original hard copy clips through traditional means (mail/overnight delivery) or may opt for digital delivery. Digital delivery allows the end user to receive via email all the relevant news of the company, competition and industry daily, with updates as they break. The same news may also be indexed (as allowed by copyright laws) in a searchable database to be accessed by subscribers. Another option of this service is auto-analysis, wherein the data can be viewed & compared in different formats.\n\nEvery organization that uses PR invariably uses news monitoring as well. In addition to tracking their own publicity, self-generated or otherwise, news monitoring clients also use the service to track competition or industry specific trends or legislation, to build a contact base of reporters, experts, leaders for future reference, to audit the effectiveness of their PR campaigns, to verify that PR, marketing and sales messages are in sync, and to measure impact on their target market. City, State, and Federal agencies use news monitoring services to stay informed in regions they otherwise would not be able to monitor themselves and to verify that the public information disseminated is accurate, accessible in multiple formats and available to the public. Some monitoring services specialize in one or more areas of press clipping, TV and radio monitoring, or internet tracking. Media analysis is also offered by most news monitoring services.\n\nTelevision news monitoring companies, especially in the United States, capture and index closed captioning text and search it for client references. Some TV monitoring companies employ human monitors who review and abstract program content; other services rely on automated search programs to search and index stories.\n\nOnline media monitoring services utilize automated software called spiders or robots (bots) to automatically monitor the content of free online news sources including newspapers, magazines, trade journals, TV station and news syndication services. Online services generally provide links but may also provide text versions of the articles. Results may or may not be verified for accuracy by the online monitoring service. Most newspapers do not include all of their print content online and some have web content that does not appear in print.\n\nIn the United States, there are trade associations formed to share best practices which include the North American Conference of Press Clipping Services and the International Association of Broadcast Monitors.\n\nIn English speaking countries, the service of media monitoring, collation & dissemination is fairly simple and most organizations which use Public Relations also use media monitoring. However, in multi-language & multi-dialect countries the challenge of collating data locally and disseminating in a translated language of business (usually English) is a daunting task. The situation in other multi-language countries is no different.\n\nThe second large challenge for Information Logistics is the growing number of media and the media types. For example, in a country like India there are over 50,000 registered print publications, 250+ TV channels, a growing number of relevant internet sites and several hundred new blogs that need to be captured every day. Several of these need to be translated for a 'heads-up' and analysis needs to be constant and real-time.\n\nAn author that recently published a book and who has a strong interest in tracking how well the book is received by critics may hire a media monitoring service. The service will have a method by which they extract any information about the author and their book from newly printed magazines, radio programs, television programs and so on. The author will receive a printed bundle of \"clippings\", i.e., the pages of the magazines and newspapers relating to them and their book. They may also receive recordings of any radio reviews, television programs and so on, which refer to his book.\n\nMost major companies and corporations subscribe to media monitoring services to keep track of any reports or comments in the media. A fast food company, for example, would receive summaries of coverage and/or copies of material drawn from a wide range of sources, including TV and radio news reports, commentaries on TV and radio shows, newspaper opinion/commentary columns, magazine articles and internet blogs.\n\nThe material collected would include any media items that relate to the company's commercial operations, its corporate reputation or its media image. This would include reports about or discussions of the fast food industry in general, and any media item that specifically mentions the company, its clients and suppliers, its competitors or related interest groups or other specified subjects of interest, such as food/health regulations.\n\nThe International Association of Broadcast Monitors (IABM) is a worldwide trade association made up of news retrieval services which record, monitor and archive broadcast news sources including television, radio and internet. It acts as a \"clearinghouse\" or \"forum\" for discussion on topics of collective concerns and acts as a united voice for the news monitoring industry.\n\nFIBEP (Federation Internationale des Bureaux d’Extraits de Presse/International Federation of the Press Clipping Services) is a professional media monitoring organization. The FIBEP was established in 1953 in Paris and has close to 100 members from 44 countries. Every 18 months, the members of FIBEP members organize a three-day FIBEP-Congress. In work groups, workshops, reports and discussion circles, members discuss market trends.\n\nTwo parallel cases developed in 2012, one in the United States, and one in the United Kingdom. In each case, the legality of temporary copies and the online media monitoring service offered to clients, was in dispute. Essentially the two cases covered the same issue (media clippings shown to clients online) and with the same defendant, Meltwater Group. The plaintiff differed, being a UK copyright collection society (UK) rather than Associated Press (US), but upon parallel grounds.\n\nThe activity was ruled unlawful in the US (under the \"fair use\" doctrine) and lawful in the UK (under UK and EU copyright law, in summary on the basis that mere viewing is never an infringement, and temporary copies to enable a lawful purpose are themselves lawful).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24216129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24216129", "title": "Metro Broadcast", "text": "Metro Broadcast\n\nMetro Broadcast Ltd. is a UK-based corporate event supplier with its Head Office in London and a satellite operation in Scotland with offices in Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen. The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of WPP plc.\n\nMetro Broadcast is also the resident technical production supplier at several London event venues such as 30 Euston Square, a conference venue based at The Royal College of General Practitioners, and one of Europe’s largest conference hotels, Hilton London Metropole. Metro’s production team also manages the https://www.youtube.com/yt/space/london/. Additionally, the company is a preferred event supplier at some of London’s most precious and historic buildings including Somerset House, the Natural History Museum, Spencer House, Barber-Surgeons’ Hall and Middle Temple Hall.\n\nIn 1980, in a flat in Welling, South East London, David Pacy, Managing Director and Brian Rottger, Technical Director founded Metrovideo. Its principal activity was tape sales to advertising agencies such as JWT (formerly J. Walter Thompson Co.), Saatchi & Saatchi and Y&R (formerly Young & Rubicam).\n\nThe company soon relocated to Landsdown Road in Stockwell and then, in April 1984, to the Old Bacon Factory in Great Suffolk Street, London SE1.\n\nIn early 1986, the business was sold to WPP plc, a British, multinational advertising and public relations company founded by Martin Sorrell. Metrovideo was the third company to be acquired by the Group.\n\nMetrovideo later acquired a number of regional video businesses for itself including Horizon Video and Still Frame Video in the South of England and Teletape Anglia in Cambridge. This expanded the sales, installation, service, AV hire and technical event production| areas of the company. A broadcast division of the company was located in offices in London’s Soho. All of these businesses traded under the Metro Group banner.\n\nIn 1990, Metro launched a full-service production business called G Force which later changed its name to Clever Media. Clever Media was then merged into another WPP operating company.\n\nIn 1997, the company extended its operation into Scotland by establishing an office and equipment warehouse in Edinburgh.\n\nIn 2007 the Company was renamed as Metro Broadcast Ltd. In 2012 Metro Broadcast relocated its head office and main business premises to its current location in Oval, South London. In 2014 it acquired additional workshop space to house its set and staging department. Today, the London business is led by Managing Director Mary Metcalfe and the Scottish business is led by Managing Director Oscar Askin.\n\nAudio visual hire|<br>\nTechnical Event Production Services|<br>\nStage design and build<br>\nLighting<br>\nFilm crews<br>\nVideo production<br>\nWebcast and Satellite broadcast infrastructure and support<br>\nManaged audio visual services<br>\nAudio visual installations\n\nwww.metrobroadcast.com\nwww.wpp.com\n\n"}
{"id": "30860671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860671", "title": "Museum of Hoaxes", "text": "Museum of Hoaxes\n\nThe Museum of Hoaxes is a website created by Alex Boese in 1997 in San Diego, California as a resource for reporting and discussing hoaxes and urban legends, both past and present.\n\nIn 2004, PC Magazine included the site as one of the \"Top 100 Sites You Didn't Know You Couldn't Live Without,\" and Sci Fi Weekly named it \"site of the week\" for the week beginning 7 February 2007.\n\nBoese has published two books on hoaxes: \"Museum of Hoaxes\" (E.P. Dutton, 2002, ) and \"Hippo Eats Dwarf: A Field Guide to Hoaxes and Other B.S.\" (Harvest Books, 2006, ). A third book by Boese, \"Elephants on Acid\" (Harvest Books, 2007, ), focuses on unusual scientific experiments. His latest book is \"Electrified Sheep\", published by Boxtree 2011, is also about strange scientific experiments.\n\n"}
{"id": "1972777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972777", "title": "Neil deGrasse Tyson", "text": "Neil deGrasse Tyson\n\nNeil deGrasse Tyson (; born October 5, 1958) is an American astrophysicist, author, and science communicator. Since 1996, he has been the Frederick P. Rose Director of the Hayden Planetarium at the Rose Center for Earth and Space in New York City. The center is part of the American Museum of Natural History, where Tyson founded the Department of Astrophysics in 1997 and has been a research associate in the department since 2003.\n\nTyson studied at Harvard University, the University of Texas at Austin and Columbia University. From 1991 to 1994 he was a postdoctoral research associate at Princeton University. In 1994, he joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist and the Princeton faculty as a visiting research scientist and lecturer. In 1996, he became director of the planetarium and oversaw its $210-million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, Tyson wrote monthly essays in the \"Universe\" column for \"Natural History\" magazine, some of which were later published in his books \"Death by Black Hole\" (2007) and \"Astrophysics for People in a Hurry\" (2017). During the same period, he wrote a monthly column in \"Star Date\" magazine, answering questions about the universe under the pen name \"Merlin\". Material from the column appeared in his books \"Merlin's Tour of the Universe\" (1998) and \"Just Visiting This Planet\" (1998). Tyson served on a 2001 government commission on the future of the U.S. aerospace industry, and on the 2004 Moon, Mars and Beyond commission. He was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal in the same year. From 2006 to 2011, he hosted the television show \"NOVA ScienceNow\" on PBS. Since 2009, Tyson hosted the weekly podcast \"StarTalk\". A spin-off, also called \"StarTalk\", began airing on National Geographic in 2015. In 2014, he hosted the television series \"\", a successor to Carl Sagan's 1980 series \"\". The U.S. National Academy of Sciences awarded Tyson the Public Welfare Medal in 2015 for his \"extraordinary role in exciting the public about the wonders of science\".\n\nTyson was born in Manhattan as the second of three children, into a family living in the Bronx. His mother, Sunchita Maria Tyson (née Feliciano), was a gerontologist for the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and is of Puerto Rican descent. His African-American father, Cyril deGrasse Tyson (1927–2016), was a sociologist, human resource commissioner for New York City mayor John Lindsay, and the first Director of Harlem Youth Opportunities Unlimited. Tyson has two siblings: Stephen Joseph Tyson and Lynn Antipas Tyson. Tyson's middle name, deGrasse, is from the maiden name of his paternal grandmother, who was born as Altima de Grasse in the British West Indies island of Nevis.\n\nTyson grew up in the Castle Hill neighborhood of the Bronx, and later in Riverdale. From kindergarten throughout high school, Tyson attended public schools in the Bronx: P.S. 36, P.S. 81, the Riverdale Kingsbridge Academy (then called \"P.S. 141\"), and The Bronx High School of Science (1972–1976) where he was captain of the wrestling team and editor-in-chief of the \"Physical Science Journal\". His interest in astronomy began at the age of nine after visiting the sky theater of the Hayden Planetarium. He recalled that \"so strong was that imprint [of the night sky] that I'm certain that I had no choice in the matter, that in fact, the universe called me.\" During high school, Tyson attended astronomy courses offered by the Hayden Planetarium, which he called \"the most formative period\" of his life. He credited Dr. Mark Chartrand III, director of the planetarium at the time, as his \"first intellectual role model\" and his enthusiastic teaching style mixed with humor inspired Tyson to communicate the universe to others the way he did.\n\nTyson obsessively studied astronomy in his teen years, and eventually even gained some fame in the astronomy community by giving lectures on the subject at the age of fifteen. Astronomer Carl Sagan, who was a faculty member at Cornell University, tried to recruit Tyson to Cornell for undergraduate studies. In his book, \"The Sky Is Not the Limit\", Tyson wrote:\n\nTyson revisited this moment on his first episode of \"\". Pulling out a 1975 calendar belonging to the famous astronomer, he found the day Sagan invited the 17-year-old to spend a day in Ithaca. Sagan had offered to put him up for the night if his bus back to the Bronx did not come. Tyson said, \"I already knew I wanted to become a scientist. But that afternoon, I learned from Carl the kind of \"person\" I wanted to become.\"\n\nTyson chose to attend Harvard where he majored in physics and lived in Currier House. He was a member of the crew team during his freshman year, but returned to wrestling, lettering in his senior year. He was also active in dance, in styles including jazz, ballet, Afro-Caribbean, and Latin Ballroom.\n\nTyson earned an AB degree in physics at Harvard College in 1980 and then began his graduate work at the University of Texas at Austin, from which he received an MA degree in astronomy in 1983. By his own account, he did not spend as much time in the research lab as he should have. His professors encouraged him to consider alternate careers and the committee for his doctoral dissertation was dissolved, ending his pursuit of a doctorate from the University of Texas.\n\nTyson was a lecturer in astronomy at the University of Maryland from 1986 to 1987 and in 1988, he was accepted into the astronomy graduate program at Columbia University, where he earned an MPhil degree in astrophysics in 1989, and a PhD degree in astrophysics in 1991 under the supervision of Professor R. Michael Rich. Rich obtained funding to support Tyson's doctoral research from NASA and the ARCS foundation enabling Tyson to attend international meetings in Italy, Switzerland, Chile, and South Africa and to hire students to help him with data reduction. In the course of his thesis work, he observed using the 0.91 m telescope at the Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory in Chile, where he obtained images for the Calán/Tololo Supernova Survey helping to further their work in establishing Type Ia supernovae as standard candles. These papers comprised part of the discovery papers of the use of Type Ia supernovae to measure distances, which led to the improved measurement of the Hubble constant and discovery of dark energy in 1998. He was 18th author on a paper with Brian Schmidt, a future winner of the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics, in the study of the measurement of distances to Type II Supernovae and the Hubble constant.\n\nDuring his thesis research at Columbia University, Tyson became acquainted with Professor David Spergel at Princeton University, who visited Columbia University in the course of collaborating with his thesis advisor on the Galactic bulge typically found in spiral galaxies.\n\nTyson's research has focused on observations in cosmology, stellar evolution, galactic astronomy, bulges, and stellar formation. He has held numerous positions at institutions including the University of Maryland, Princeton University, the American Museum of Natural History, and the Hayden Planetarium.\n\nIn 1994, Tyson joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist while he was a research affiliate in Princeton University. He became acting director of the planetarium in June 1995 and was appointed director in 1996. As director, he oversaw the planetarium's $210 million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000. Upon being asked for his thoughts on becoming director, Tyson said \"when I was a kid... there were scientists and educators on the staff at the Hayden Planetarium... who invested their time and energy in my enlightenment... and I've never forgotten that. And to end up back there as its director, I feel this deep sense of duty, that I serve in the same capacity for people who come through the facility today, that others served for me\".\n\nTyson has written a number of popular books on astronomy. In 1995, he began to write the \"Universe\" column for \"Natural History\" magazine. In a column he authored for a special edition of the magazine, called \"City of Stars\", in 2002, Tyson popularized the term \"Manhattanhenge\" to describe the two days annually on which the evening sun aligns with the street grid in Manhattan, making the sunset visible along unobstructed side streets. He had coined the term in 1996, inspired by how the phenomenon recalls the sun's solstice alignment with the Stonehenge monument in England. Tyson's column also influenced his work as a professor with The Great Courses.\n\nIn 2001, U.S. President George W. Bush appointed Tyson to serve on the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry and in 2004 to serve on the President's Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, the latter better known as the \"Moon, Mars, and Beyond\" commission. Soon afterward, he was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian honor bestowed by NASA.\nIn 2004, Tyson hosted the four-part \"Origins\" miniseries of the PBS \"Nova\" series, and, with Donald Goldsmith, co-authored the companion volume for this series, \"Origins: Fourteen Billion Years Of Cosmic Evolution\". He again collaborated with Goldsmith as the narrator on the documentary \"400 Years of the Telescope\", which premiered on PBS in April 2009.\n\nAs director of the Hayden Planetarium, Tyson bucked traditional thinking in order to keep Pluto from being referred to as the ninth planet in exhibits at the center. Tyson has explained that he wanted to look at commonalities between objects, grouping the terrestrial planets together, the gas giants together, and Pluto with like objects, and to get away from simply counting the planets. He has stated on \"The Colbert Report\", \"The Daily Show\", and \"BBC Horizon\" that this decision has resulted in large amounts of hate mail, much of it from children. In 2006, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) confirmed this assessment by changing Pluto to the dwarf planet classification.\n\nTyson recounted the heated online debate on the Cambridge Conference Network (CCNet), a \"widely read, UK-based Internet chat group\", following Benny Peiser's renewed call for reclassification of Pluto's status. Peiser's entry, in which he posted articles from the AP and \"The Boston Globe\", spawned from \"The New York Times\"s article entitled \"Pluto's Not a Planet? Only in New York\".\n\nTyson has been vice-president, president, and chairman of the board of the Planetary Society. He was also the host of the PBS program \"Nova ScienceNow\" until 2011. He attended and was a speaker at the symposium in November 2006. In 2007, Tyson was chosen to be a regular on The History Channel's popular series \"The Universe\".\nIn May 2009, Tyson launched a one-hour radio talk show called \"StarTalk\", which he co-hosted with comedian Lynne Koplitz. The show was syndicated on Sunday afternoons on KTLK AM in Los Angeles and WHFS in Washington DC. The show lasted for thirteen weeks, but was resurrected in December 2010 and then, co-hosted with comedians Chuck Nice and Leighann Lord instead of Koplitz. Guests range from colleagues in science to celebrities such as GZA, Wil Wheaton, Sarah Silverman, and Bill Maher. The show is available via the Internet through a live stream or in the form of a podcast.\n\nIn April 2011, Tyson was the keynote speaker at the 93rd International Convention of the Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society of the Two-year School. He and James Randi delivered a lecture entitled \"Skepticism\", which related directly with the convention's theme of \"The Democratization of Information: Power, Peril, and Promise\".\n\nIn 2012, Tyson announced that he would appear in a YouTube series based on his radio show \"StarTalk\". A premiere date for the show has not been announced, but it will be distributed on the Nerdist YouTube Channel. On February 28, 2014, Tyson was a celebrity guest at the White House Student Film Festival. In 2014, he helped revive Carl Sagan's \"\" television series, presenting \"\" on both FOX and the National Geographic Channel. Thirteen episodes were aired in the first season, and Tyson has stated that if a second season were produced, he would pass the role of host to someone else in the science world. On April 20, 2015, he began hosting a late-night talk show entitled \"StarTalk\" on the National Geographic Channel, where Tyson interviews pop culture celebrities and asks them about their life experiences with science.\n\nTyson is co-developing a sandbox video game with Whatnot Entertainment, \"\", which aims to help provide players with a realistic simulation of developing a space-faring culture, incorporating educational materials about space and technology. The game is anticipated for release in 2018.\n\nTyson has written and broadcast extensively about his views of science, spirituality, and the spirituality of science, including the essays \"The Perimeter of Ignorance\" and \"Holy Wars\", both appearing in \"Natural History\" magazine and the 2006 \"Beyond Belief\" workshop. In an interview with comedian Paul Mecurio, Tyson offered his definition of spirituality: \"For me, when I say spiritual, I’m referring to a feeling you would have that connects you to the universe in a way that it may defy simple vocabulary. We think about the universe as an intellectual playground, which it surely is, but the moment you learn something that touches an emotion rather than just something intellectual, I would call that a spiritual encounter with the universe.\" Tyson has argued that many great historical scientists' belief in intelligent design limited their scientific inquiries, to the detriment of the advance of scientific knowledge.\n\nWhen asked during a question session at the University at Buffalo if he believed in a higher power, Tyson responded: \"Every account of a higher power that I've seen described, of all religions that I've seen, include many statements with regard to the benevolence of that power. When I look at the universe and all the ways the universe wants to kill us, I find it hard to reconcile that with statements of beneficence.\" In an interview with \"Big Think\", Tyson said, \"So what people are really after is what is my stance on religion or spirituality or God, and I would say if I find a word that came closest, it would be agnostic ... at the end of the day I'd rather not be any category at all.\" Additionally, in the same interview with \"Big Think\", Tyson mentioned that he edited Wikipedia's entry on him to include the fact that he is an agnostic:I'm constantly claimed by atheists. I find this intriguing. In fact, on my Wiki page – I didn't create the Wiki page, others did, and I'm flattered that people cared enough about my life to assemble it – and it said \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an atheist.\" I said, \"Well that's not really true.\" I said, \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an agnostic.\" I went back a week later it had been rewritten and it said \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an atheist.\" – again within a week – and I said, \"What's up with that?\" so I said \"Alright, I have to word it a little differently.\" So I said, okay \"Neil deGrasse Tyson, widely claimed by atheists, is actually an agnostic.\"During the interview \"Called by the Universe: A Conversation with Neil deGrasse Tyson\" in 2009, Tyson said: \"I can't agree to the claims by atheists that I'm one of that community. I don't have the time, energy, interest of conducting myself that way... I'm not trying to convert people. I don't care.\"\n\nIn March 2014, philosopher and secularism proponent Massimo Pigliucci asked Tyson \"What is it you think about God?\" Tyson replied \"I remain unconvinced by any claims anyone has ever made about the existence or the power of a divine force operating in the universe.\" Pigliucci then asked him why he expressed discomfort with the label \"atheist\" in his Big Think video. Tyson replied by reiterating his dislike for one-word labels, saying \"That's what adjectives are for. What kind of atheist are you? Are you an ardent atheist? Are you a passive atheist? An apathetic atheist? Do you rally, or do you just not even care? So I'd be on the 'I really don't care' side of that, if you had to find adjectives to put in front of the word 'atheist.'\" Pigliucci contrasted Tyson with scientist Richard Dawkins: \"[Dawkins] really does consider, at this point, himself to be an atheist activist. You very clearly made the point that you are not.\" Tyson replied: \"I completely respect that activity. He's fulfilling a really important role out there.\"\n\nTyson has spoken about philosophy on numerous occasions. In March 2014, during an episode of \"The Nerdist Podcast\", he stated that philosophy is \"useless\" and that a philosophy major \"can really mess you up\", which was met with disapproval. The philosopher Massimo Pigliucci later criticized him for \"dismiss[ing] philosophy as a useless enterprise\".\n\nIn an undated interview at Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Tyson talked about being black and one of the most visible and well-known scientists in the world. He told a story about being interviewed about a plasma burst from the sun on a local Fox affiliate in 1989. \"I'd never before in my life seen an interview with a black person on television for expertise that had nothing to do with being black. And at that point, I realized that one of the last stereotypes that prevailed among people who carry stereotypes is that, sort of, black people are somehow dumb. I wondered, maybe ... that's a way to undermine this sort of, this stereotype that prevailed about who's smart and who's dumb. I said to myself, 'I just have to be visible, or others like me, in that situation.' That would have a greater force on society than anything else I could imagine.\"\n\nIn 2005, at a conference at the National Academy of Sciences, Tyson responded to a question about whether genetic differences might keep women from working as scientists. He said that his goal to become an astrophysicist was, \"...hands down the path of most resistance through the forces ... of society.\" He continued: \"My life experience tells me, when you don’t find blacks in the sciences, when you don’t find women in the sciences, I know these forces are real and I had to survive them in order to get where I am today. So before we start talking about genetic differences, you gotta come up with a system where there’s equal opportunity. Then we can start having that conversation.\"\n\nIn a 2014 interview with \"Grantland\", Tyson said that he related his experience on that 2005 panel in an effort to make the point that the scientific question about genetic differences can't be answered until the social barriers are dismantled. \"I'm saying before you even have that conversation, you have to be really sure that access to opportunity has been level\". In that same interview, Tyson said that race is not a part of the point he is trying to make in his career or with his life. According to Tyson, \"[T]hat then becomes the point of people's understanding of me, rather than the astrophysics. So it's a failed educational step for that to be the case. If you end up being distracted by that and not [getting] the message\". He purposefully no longer speaks publicly about race. \"I don't give talks on it. I don't even give Black History Month talks. I decline every single one of them. In fact, since 1993, I've declined every interview that has my being black as a premise of the interview\".\n\nTyson is an advocate for expanding the operations of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Arguing that \"the most powerful agency on the dreams of a nation is currently underfunded to do what it needs to be doing\". Tyson has suggested that the general public has a tendency to overestimate how much revenue is allocated to the space agency. At a March 2010 address, referencing the proportion of tax revenue spent on NASA, he stated, \"By the way, how much does NASA cost? It's a half a penny on the dollar. Did you know that? The people are saying, 'Why are we spending money up there...' I ask them, 'How much do you think we're spending?' They say 'five cents, ten cents on a dollar.' It's a half a penny.\"\n\nIn March 2012, Tyson testified before the United States Senate Science Committee, stating that:\n\nRight now, NASA's annual budget is half a penny on your tax dollar. For twice that—a penny on a dollar—we can transform the country from a sullen, dispirited nation, weary of economic struggle, to one where it has reclaimed its 20th century birthright to dream of tomorrow.\n\nInspired by Tyson's advocacy and remarks, Penny4NASA, a campaign of the Space Advocates nonprofit, was founded in 2012 by John Zeller and advocates the doubling of NASA's budget to one percent of the Federal Budget.\n\nIn his book \"Space Chronicles: Facing the Ultimate Frontier\" Tyson argues that large and ambitious space exploration projects, like getting humans to Mars, will probably require some sort of military or economic driver in order to get the appropriate funding from the United States Federal government.\n\nTyson collaborated with the organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) on a public service announcement that stated, \"You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know that kindness is a virtue.\" He also granted PETA an interview in which he discussed the concept of intelligence (both of human and other animals), the failure of humans to heretofore communicate meaningfully with other animals, and the need of humans to be empathetic.\n\nAs a science communicator, Tyson regularly appears on television, radio, and various other media outlets. He has been a regular guest on \"The Colbert Report\", and host Stephen Colbert refers to him in his comedic book \"I Am America (And So Can You!)\", noting in his chapter on scientists that most scientists are \"decent, well-intentioned people\", but, presumably tongue-in-cheek, that \"Neil DeGrasse Tyson is an absolute monster.\" He has appeared numerous times on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\". He has made appearances on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\", and \"The Rachel Maddow Show\". He served as one of the central interviewees on the various episodes of the History Channel science program, \"The Universe\". Tyson participated on the NPR radio quiz program \"Wait Wait... Don't Tell Me!\" in 2007 and 2015. He has appeared several times on \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", and he was also featured on an episode of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\" as the ask-the-expert lifeline. He has spoken numerous times on the Philadelphia morning show, \"Preston and Steve\", on 93.3 WMMR, as well as on SiriusXM's \"Ron and Fez\" and \"The Opie and Anthony Show\".\n\nTyson has been featured as a guest interviewee on \"The Skeptics' Guide to the Universe\", \"Radiolab\", \"Skepticality\", and \"The Joe Rogan Experience\" podcasts and has been in several of the Symphony of Science videos.\n\nTyson lived near the World Trade Center and was an eyewitness to the September 11, 2001 attacks. He wrote a widely circulated letter on what he saw. Footage he filmed on the day was included in the 2008 documentary film \"102 Minutes That Changed America\".\n\nIn 2007, Tyson was the keynote speaker during the dedication ceremony of Deerfield Academy's new science center, the Koch Center, named for David H. Koch '59. He emphasized the impact science will have on the twenty-first century, as well as explaining that investments into science may be costly, but their returns in the form of knowledge gained and piquing interest is invaluable. Tyson has also appeared as the keynote speaker at The Amazing Meeting, a science and skepticism conference hosted by the James Randi Educational Foundation.\n\nTyson made a guest appearance as himself in the episode \"Brain Storm\" of \"Stargate Atlantis\" alongside Bill Nye and in the episode \"The Apology Insufficiency\" of \"The Big Bang Theory\". Archive footage of him is used in the film \"Europa Report\". Tyson also made an appearance in an episode of \"Martha Speaks\" as himself.\nIn a May 2011 \"StarTalk Radio\" show, \"The Political Science of the Daily Show\", Tyson said he donates all income earned as a guest speaker.\n\nTyson is a frequent participant in the website Reddit's AMAs (Ask Me Anythings) where he is responsible for three of the top ten most popular AMAs of all time.\n\nIn \"Action Comics\" #14 (January 2013), which was published November 7, 2012, Tyson appears in the story, in which he determines that Superman's home planet, Krypton, orbited the red dwarf LHS 2520 in the constellation Corvus 27.1 lightyears from Earth. Tyson assisted DC Comics in selecting a real-life star that would be an appropriate parent star to Krypton, and picked Corvus, which is Latin for \"Crow\", and which is the mascot of Superman's high school, the Smallville Crows. Tyson also had a minor appearance as himself in the 2016 film \"\".\n\nIn May 2013, the Science Laureates of the United States Act of 2013 (H.R. 1891; 113th Congress) was introduced into Congress. Neil deGrasse Tyson was listed by at least two commentators as a possible nominee for the position of Science Laureate, if the act were to pass. On March 8, 2014, Tyson made a SXSW Interactive keynote presentation at the Austin Convention Center.\n\nOn June 3, 2014, Tyson co-reviewed \"Gravity\" in a CinemaSins episode. He made two more appearances with CinemaSins, co-reviewing \"Interstellar\" on September 29, 2015, and \"The Martian\" on March 31, 2016.\n\nIn 2016, Tyson narrated and was a script supervisor for the science documentary, Food Evolution, directed by Academy Award nominated director Scott Hamilton Kennedy. In the same year, Tyson made a guest appearance on the Avenged Sevenfold album \"The Stage\", where he delivered a monolog on the track \"Exist\". In 2017, Tyson appeared on Logic's album \"Everybody\" on the song \"AfricAryaN\" as well as on \"The Moon\" on Musiq Soulchild's album \"Feel the Real\".\n\nIn 2018, Tyson made a guest appearance on \"The Big Bang Theory\" as himself, together with fellow scientist Bill Nye, in the first episode of the show's final season (\"The Conjugal Configuration\").\nTyson lives in Lower Manhattan with his wife, Alice Young. They have two children: Miranda and Travis. Tyson met his wife in a physics class at the University of Texas at Austin. They married in 1988 and named their first child Miranda, after the smallest of Uranus' five major moons. Tyson is a wine enthusiast whose collection was featured in the May 2000 issue of the \"Wine Spectator\" and the Spring 2005 issue of \"The World of Fine Wine\".\n\nList of awards received by Tyson:\n\n\n\n\nList of works by Tyson:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52579473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52579473", "title": "Overwatch seasonal events", "text": "Overwatch seasonal events\n\n\"Overwatch\" is an online team-based first person shooter developed by Blizzard Entertainment, and released worldwide in May 2016. Normally played in matches of six-vs-six, players select from one of 29 heroes, broadly classified into the three categories of Tank, Damage, and Support, and work with their team to attack or defend map objectives. Each hero has a unique set of weapons, abilities, and skills, which players can coordinate to overpower the other team. \"Overwatch\" supports both casual and ranked matchmaking, as well as a rotating set of arcade modes, and the game has since become a popular eSport, featuring a professional Overwatch League that started in 2018. The game has been both a critical and financial success for Blizzard, exceeding over 30 million players and obtaining over $1 billion in revenue within its first year.\n\nTo support ongoing interest in the game, Blizzard has run several seasonal events, typically coinciding with worldwide events and holidays. These events last for two to three weeks, updating levels to incorporate elements of that theme, and provide new game modes along with the opportunity to acquire unique cosmetic options. Players keep their earned character cosmetic options after the event ends, but the rest of the themed elements return to normal.\n\nOver the course of developing \"Overwatch\", Blizzard opted against using a downloadable content model to extend the game and bring post-sale revenues, as they had developed the game around the mechanic of allowing players to switch out to new heroes during the course of a match as to meet current strategic conditions; by requiring players to purchase new heroes, such a model would have hampered this approach. Instead, they opted to include microtransactions through which players can buy loot boxes, which contain four randomized cosmetic items, including characters skins, victory poses, emotes, spray tags, highlight introductions, and player icons. This allowed them to create an incentivized level progression system that would reward players with a loot box for every level they earned from experience gained in playing matches. Working alongside this, players can earn in-game coins through some loot box rewards or as a consolation prize for receiving a duplicate loot box reward. These coins can be used to purchase any of the available cosmetic items (with the exception of player icons), the cost reflecting the rarity of obtaining the item through a loot box.\n\nBeginning in August 2016, Blizzard began introducing seasonal events, starting with the Summer Games event which corresponded with the 2016 Summer Olympics. \"Overwatch\"s director Jeff Kaplan said the goal of these seasonal events was to make the game \"feel alive\", correlating with real-world events. The company has a history of creating in-game seasonal events, such as the Valentine's Day and New Year's events in \"World of Warcraft\". Other competitor games, such as \"Destiny\", \"League of Legends\" and \"Team Fortress 2\", also implement in-game seasonal events.\n\nEvents have generally included at least one new game mode, which typically is only available to play while that event is active; one exception is the \"Capture the Flag\" mode introduced during the Chinese New Year event in early 2017, which has been brought back to the game as a permanent feature in the game's casual Arcade matchmaking mode. Players are typically rewarded with loot boxes for playing matches in these seasonal game modes, and the game offers unique achievements and associated cosmetic rewards for completing certain goals within them.\n\nIn addition to new games modes, these seasonal events include unique cosmetic items that can be obtained primarily during the event. Blizzard develops a large amount of content for these events, not all which ends up available to players. Initially, these items could only be obtained through event-themed loot boxes that are guaranteed to contain at least one event-themed item, which could either be earned through leveling up, completing the event game modes, or through microtransactions; however, in response to player feedback and avoid an apparent paywall access to these items, Blizzard allowed players to purchase these items with in-game currency at a higher cost than a non-event item of the same rarity, starting from the second seasonal event onward. When the event is completed, the themed loot boxes and cosmetic items are no longer are available until the event is run again. However, players retain and can use all unique event items they have earned after the event. Not all event items will be limited in this manner, as Blizzard plans to have certain event items be possible loot obtained from a regular loot box in the future.\n\nSeveral seasonal events, such as Summer Games, Halloween Terror, and Winter Wonderland, have recurred. However, on bringing these events back, the development team has added new changes to the event to keep them fresh and to reflect any new heroes or other content added to the game since the previous event's occurrence; for example, the 2017 Halloween \"Junkenstein's Revenge\" included a new endless mode and support for some of the newer heroes. Recurring events also feature new themed cosmetic items for these recurring events, along with the return of the previous cosmetics which can be found in the event loot boxes or bought for a reduced coin amount. Not all seasonal events are designed for recurrence, such as the lore-heavy \"Uprising\" event which took place in April 2017. Kaplan said that Blizzard has plans as to how these events will evolve in the future.\n\nIn August 2016, Blizzard released its first seasonal event in celebration of the concurrent 2016 Summer Olympics. Both Blizzard's \"Summer Games\" and the Olympics ran throughout the month. Summer Games added 100 new cosmetic character options and a new game mode, Lúcioball.\n\nLúcioball was designed as a futuristic soccer game in which two teams of three Lúcio characters attempt to push a ball into their opponents' goal. Played in four-minute matches on the special stadium map, Estádio das Rãs, players use two kinds of attacks to control the ball's movements: primarily, a melee attack and a secondary, powerful sonic boom that could knock back opponents as well (frequently called \"booping\" by players). Players can also use the level's environmental perks (e.g., jump pads and speed-boosting walls) to secure strategic advantage on the field. \"PC Gamer\" felt that the mode felt closer to a \"multiplayer carnival game than a fleshed-out, standalone mode\".\n\nBlizzard released its second seasonal event for Halloween, which lasted throughout the month of October 2016. It included over 100 new cosmetic items (in jack-o'-lantern-themed loot boxes) and the game's first game mode against computer players, Junkenstein's Revenge. Several characters received new Halloween-themed cosmetic skins. \"PC Gamer\" wrote that they were among the game's best add-ons, and \"Kill Screen\" felt the new character skins were much more enjoyable compared to those offered for the Summer Games. Players could now purchase the seasonal add-ons with in-game credits (at a premium), in response to criticism Blizzard received from players during the Summer Games.\n\nIn Junkenstein's Revenge, four players cooperatively guard a castle door from oncoming waves of enemies and bosses. Set in a themed section of the game's Eichenwalde map, players select a difficulty level and choose between the characters Ana, Hanzo, McCree, and , before fighting off approaching mindless \"zomnic\" drones, long-range \"zombardiers,\" exploding tires, and costumed versions of the characters Reaper, Roadhog, Symmetra, Mercy, and Junkrat (as the titular Dr. Junkenstein). The game mode includes new voice work and is based on a companion comic book released concurrently.\n\nThe new mode was generally praised by commentators. \"PC Gamer\" wrote that the event resembled a similar event run on the team shooter \"Team Fortress 2\" since 2012. Though the reviewer found the Junkenstein mode pleasant, he wrote that in comparison to \"Team Fortress 2\" Mann vs. Machine mode, Junkenstein felt \"shallow\" and similar to Lúcioball in its simplistic map flow, giving little room for player movement. He also wondered why the mode was limited to four specific characters. \"Eurogamer\"s Robert Purchase found the event fun and considered it a good distraction from \"Overwatch\"s main modes, but also recognized that if it was kept on after the Halloween Terror event, it would become a stale game mode. Heather Alexandra for \"Kotaku\" felt that the mode demonstrated that a co-operative player-versus-environment mode would fit well as a permanent feature within \"Overwatch\" as it required good team coordination to complete more challenging matches.\n\nThe event ended a few hours earlier than had been planned, leaving some players upset as they were waiting for as long as possible collecting the themed loot boxes in-game before trying to spend in-game coins or purchasing loot boxes to get the cosmetic items they were missing.\n\nThe holiday-themed Winter Wonderland event ran for the latter half of December 2016 through the first days of the new year. Like previous events, it added over 100 themed cosmetic items for players to obtain via loot boxes or in-game currency, as well as provided snowy versions of two of the game's maps. One cosmetic items included the first Legendary skin for Mei since the game's release, a Santa-like outfit; with this skin equipped, it also changed the appearance of Mei's Cryo-Freeze from a simple block of ice to a frozen snowman. Players criticized the skin, feeling that it did not vary as much from Mei's normal outfits and appeared to be a simple recoloring of her default skin, in comparison to what other characters' Legendary skins had been. Blizzard admitted that their \"'cool meter' was off\" when they designed this skin, believing that players would take to the Cryo-Freeze effect as a reason to value the skin. Blizzard stated that they had plans for another Mei Legendary skin, along the lines of what players would expect, in early 2017.\n\nThe event featured a new deathmatch mode called \"Mei's Snowball Offensive\". The mode took place on the smaller Ecopoint: Antartica map, introduced in the previous months for standard deathmatch play. Six players each play Mei, but where her Endothermic Blaster, which normally fires a stream of damaging cold, can only fire a single snowball. Players must find a snowball pile scattered around the map to reload the weapon. Further, her Ultimate ability allows her to fire a machine-gun-like string of snowballs for a brief period. Otherwise, Mei's other abilities (Ice Wall and Cyro-Freeze) remain the same. A single snowball hit kills the struck until the round is complete. Kotaku claims this mode was generally not well received by players as the act of having to reload the Blaster made one too vulnerable, and with the permadeath mechanic in play, the mode was not fun nor captured the spirit of a snowball fight.\n\nA Chinese New Year-themed event launched a few days before the actual holiday on January 28, 2017, and centered on celebrating the Year of the Rooster. As with past events, the Chinese New Year event introduced over 100 new cosmetic items, including the promised new Legendary skin for Mei to make up for the poorly-received one she had gotten during the Winter Wonderland event. Other skins for Roadhog, Reinhardt, Winston and Zenyatta alluded to the Chinese novel \"Journey to the West\".\n\nThe event introduced the first Capture the Flag mode for \"Overwatch\" called \"Capture the Rooster\"; Blizzard had looked at adding such a mode for a few years during \"Overwatch\"s development but had difficulty with the mechanics due to the vastly different set of abilities offered by the characters that could imbalance the mode towards fast-moving characters. Played on the Lijiang Tower map, normally used for Control modes, each team has a flag near their base. To capture the other opponent's flag, a character must stay near the flag and not take damage for a few seconds. Once they have taken the flag, they then must return it to their team's base, scoring a point if they do so. If they die while bringing the flag back, either a teammate can try to capture it, or the opposing team must stay near the flag, avoiding taking damage for a few seconds, to return it to their base. Teams can score with the opposing team's flag even if their team's flag has been taken. The first team to three scores, or the team with the highest score after five minutes, wins the match.\n\nFollowing the event, Blizzard introduced a more general Capture the Flag mode, playable on any of the Control maps, into the Arcade modes as well as making it an option for custom games with several adjustable parameters.\n\nUprising ran for most of the month of April 2017, and was the first seasonal event not tied to any real-world event, but instead used to expand the lore of \"Overwatch\". The story centered around one of the last official missions of the Overwatch team before they were disbanded—having to end the threat of a hostile Omnic force known as the Null Sector in its attack on the citizens of London—; which also happened to be Tracer's first mission. Over 100 new cosmetic items were added with this event, many based on the uniforms and backstory of the original Overwatch forces. A digital comic retelling this story was released alongside the event. According to Kaplan, the Uprising event was something Blizzard felt had been asked for by players since they started offering the seasonal events. Players had requested non-holiday-themed events, as well as sought more details on the setting and history of the \"Overwatch\" world.\n\nThe event added a new cooperative player-versus-environment mode called \"Uprising\", played on the King's Row map set in London. In the standard mode, which can be played at one of four difficulty levels, four players select from the characters of Tracer, Reinhardt, Torbjörn, and Mercy. From there, the players are directed by in-game narration to take several control points while fighting against waves of Null Sector Omnics that try to stop them. Eventually, they must then escort an explosive weapon to a sealed door in order to access the heart of the Null Sector facility and end their threat for good. If a player was downed, any of the other still-surviving players could help them up by interacting with that character for a few moments (or through Mercy's Ultimate ability of Resurrection). If all four players are downed, or the explosive is destroyed before reaching the sealed doors, the round ends as a loss. A separate mode allowed players to complete the same mission without being limited in character selection, but without any of the character-specific dialogue; Blizzard added this based on feedback from Junkenstein's Revenge, so as to provide a less restrictive way to enjoy the game mode.\n\nThe Uprising mode was considered a much-improved version of a player-versus-environment mode compared to Junkenstein's Revenge from the Halloween event. Cecilia D'Anastasio for \"Kotaku\" felt the mode was much more dynamic since it required players to move throughout the map rather than stay in one general location, and as the four default characters represent a balanced team, the mode calls for more careful teamwork and strategy. D'Anastasio also felt that with new voice lines to support this mode, it helped to establish the game's lore for players. \"PC Gamer\" argued that the Uprising event demonstrated the potential for a strong team-based story-driven campaign developed within the \"Overwatch\" narrative.\n\nThe event had mistakenly ended a few hours earlier than expected on May 1, 2017; Blizzard apologized and extended the event for an additional day into May 2 to allow players to finish acquiring and purchasing the event loot boxes and skins.\n\nWhile the event was just named \"Uprising\" at its release, Blizzard stated in 2018 that they considered it to be the first \"\"Overwatch\" Archive\" annual event that will be used to explore the history of the characters and narrative.\n\nThe Anniversary event, ran from the end of May 2017, celebrated \"Overwatch\"s first year since release. Gameplay-wise, it added three new Arena maps used for the smaller-scale Elimination games, and which will remain in rotation after the events' conclusion. The Eliminate mode also received two variants. In one-on-one \"Limited Duel\" matches, each player is presented with the same selection of three random heroes for play for that round. In three-on-three \"Lockout Elimination\", the heroes used by the winning team on a round are locked out for the next round.\n\nIn addition, over one hundred new cosmetic items are available, including new dancing emotes for each of the characters. The dance emotes were found to evoke references to popularized dance moves in other works, such as Mei's dance being similar to the \"Hare Hare Yukai\" dance used at the end credits for the anime \"The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya\".\n\nA second Summer Games event was held from August 8 to August 29, 2017. This event brought back the 3-on-3 soccer-like mode, Lucioball, introduced from the first Summer Games, adding additional arenas for the event to be played in, but removing the ability to \"boop\" other players. In addition to casual matchmaking for Lucioball, Blizzard also introduced a ranked play system for Lucioball, separate from the game's normal Competitive mode. By participating in this \"Copa Lucioball\" mode, players earned Competitive Points (CP), the same in-game currency earned playing Competitive matches, and used towards purchasing special weapon skins (such as golden weapons).\n\nThe previous skins and other cosmetic items offered from the first Summer Games were made available again to obtain in loot crates or purchasable from in-game coins at a lower cost, while additional Summer Games skins were added, purchasable at their normal cost.\n\nThe Halloween Terror 2017 event ran from October 10 to November 2, 2017. The event brought back \"Junkenstein's Revenge\" from the previous year's event, but added an endless-mode variant that challenges players to defend the door through as many waves as possible. This mode allowed players to have four additional characters to select from, Genji, Torbjorn, Widowmaker, and Zenyatta, in addition to McCree, Soldier: 76, Ana, and Hanzo. Teams lasting the longest were tracked via an online scoreboard.\n\nNew skins and cosmetic items were added to the event, along with the items from the previous Halloween Terror. With the exclusion of the tombstone victory poses introduced in the previous event, all these could be obtained from loot boxes or in-game coin purchase. Blizzard opted to remove the tombstone victory poses from loot box rewards as they believed these no longer fit with the characters' personalities, but still allowed players to purchase them in-game.\n\nThe winter-focused \"Winter Wonderland 2017\" event ran from December 12, 2017 through January 1, 2018. It brought back the previous year's \"Winter Wonderland\" content, including the \"Mei Snowball Offensive\" mode and previous cosmetic items, along with new skins and other cosmetics. It also added a new Arcade mode, \"Yeti Hunter\". In this asymmetric mode, five players, each playing as Mei, attempt to defeat one player controlling Winston (acting as the Yeti) in a boss battle on Nepal's Village stage. Yeti Hunt is the first Overwatch mode to use role selection; players can indicate their preference to play as a Mei or as the Yeti. The Winston player must elude the Mei team, which can freeze him, use ice walls to impede his movement, or catch him in a snare trap (which replaces Mei's usual Ultimate). After collecting four pieces of meat, which spawn randomly in predetermined locations around the map, Winston unleashes his Ultimate ability for a short period which temporarily boosts his health, reduces his jump cooldown, and gives him powerful melee attacks. When a Mei player dies, they will respawn after a short delay and cost their team a life. The match is over once the Mei team either defeats Winston or loses all five of their lives. Kaplan described the Yeti Hunt as a light-hearted mode to be played for a few matches rather than hundreds of hours.\n\nThe Chinese New Year event reoccurred from February 8 to March 5, 2018, now reflecting the Year of the Dog. New cosmetic items relating to the theme were released, in addition to the existing cosmetics from the previous event. A new map, \"Ayutthaya\", inspired by Thailand and specifically designed for the Capture the Flag mode, was introduced in this event. Additionally, new Capture the Flag rules for all modes were updated, replacing the potential to have these end as draws by instead playing tie-breaking rounds with the teams' flags starting closer to each other on each subsequent round. The changes also eliminated the short period before players could pick up the flag, now able to pick up the flag instantaneously, but any use of a character's active skills or ultimate abilities that provide mobility or invulnerability would force them to drop the flag, and render the flag unable to be picked up for a few moments. These changes were to make games feel \"much more offensive, and much more action-packed\". Additionally, a competitive mode for Capture the Flag, following a similar format as the competitive Lucioball mode in the 2017 Summer Games event, was run during the event, rewarding players with Competitive Points and unique items for the end-of-event placement.\n\nAs part of the event, Blizzard featured its inaugural \"Puppy Rumble\", modeled after the \"Puppy Bowl\", on February 19, 2018, featuring puppies dressed in \"Overwatch\" character outfits in mock events. All of the animals during the event were put up for adoption through the event's co-sponsor Petfinder, as well as promoting animal adoption through other local adoption agencies.\n\nThe \"Overwatch\" Archive event from the previous year returned, and ran from April 10, 2018. It brought back the narrative-driven player-versus-environment mode introduced in Uprising. It also featured a new mode titled \"Retribution\", which will take place on a new map, Rialto, which entered the game's map rotation as a Payload map outside of the Retribution event, on May 3, 2018. This was a four-player co-operative mode, based on the characters Reaper, McCree, Moira, and Genji as they escape from Talon forces; alternatively, this mode also includes an All-Hero mode where players can select any of the available characters. New skins and cosmetic items were available in loot boxes during this time. The new Retribution event was aimed to provide a more replayable experience compared to the prior Uprising event. This included eliminating the waypoint approach they as to reduce elements on the user interface and instead allow players to naturally figure out how to progress in the mission. They also included \"specials\", unique enemies with special abilities to pose an immediate threat to the players rather than just waves of strong enemies, and included an enemy artificial intelligence systems to better react to players, including in the All-Hero mode. Much of the ideas of this mode were based on concepts from the \"Left 4 Dead\" games.\n\nThe second anniversary event ran from May 22 to June 11, 2018. Also with new cosmetic items, the event included a limited time competitive deathmatch mode with an exclusive map, Petra. In addition to previous Anniversary cosmetic items, all Anniversary loot boxes included cosmetic items from all previous seasonal events, and these are also available to buy with in-game gold.\n\nThe third Summer Games event ran from August 9–30, 2018. The Lucioball event returned with a new stadium map based on Busan, South Korea.\n\nThe 2018 iteration of Halloween terror ran from October 10–31, 2018. The Dr. Junkenstein's Revenge mode was updated to include changes made throughout the previous year, such as the changes to Symmetra. The player-versus-environment map remained largely unchanged, with the 2 modes and 4 difficulties each of the last year's event. Brigitte and Tracer were made playable for the game mode.\n"}
{"id": "20731129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20731129", "title": "Personal watercraft-related accidents", "text": "Personal watercraft-related accidents\n\nThe number of personal watercraft-related accidents has increased with the popularity of personal watercraft (PWC) (also commonly known as jet skis) since their introduction during the late 1960s. The use of the term \"jet ski\" for all types of PWCs is a misnomer; Jet Ski is a registered trademark in the United States for a line of PWCs manufactured by Kawasaki). With the increased use of personal watercraft since their inception, the hazards accompanying their use have also increased. According to U.S. government reports, most accidents are associated with rental operators, underage operators, under-trained and undereducated boaters and a variety of factors associated with recreational-boating accidents (excessive speed, inattention, reckless operation, alcohol consumption and violations of the \"Rules of the Road\"). Due to their affordability, ease of use, and relatively low transportation and maintenance costs, personal watercraft have significantly increased the number of water-based enthusiasts in the U.S. This rise in participation has created conflicts between the various boating segments in the U.S. and a need for additional boater education. Recreational-boating accidents are the second-largest transportation-related cause of injury in the U.S. (after automobile accidents).\n\nPersonal watercraft are vessels designed for recreational use on the water, carrying between one and four passengers. The U.S. Coast Guard defines PWC as \"craft less than 13 feet in length designed to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing or kneeling on the craft rather than within the confines of a hull\". The original PWCs were manufactured during the mid-1950s in the United Kingdom and Europe. Ten years later Bombardier Recreational Products (BRP) began manufacturing PWC's in the USA under the name Sea-Doo. BRP left the PWC business shortly thereafter, and in 1973 Kawasaki introduced a \"stand-up\" watercraft designed for a single operator (with a tray for standing or kneeling, in place of a seat). By the late 1980s \"sit-down\" models had appeared on the market, allowing the rider to be seated (similar to a snowmobile or motorcycle seat). These sit-down models were made by Kawasaki (1986), Yamaha (1987) and BRP (1988). Polaris and Arctic were two American companies which entered the market during the early 1990s.\n\nPWC have an inboard engine with a screw-shaped impeller to create thrust and propulsion for steering. They are small, fast, and easy to maneuver; PWCs do not use external propellers, making them safer for swimmers and wildlife. The user-friendly properties of PWCs have contributed to the increase in popularity amongst less-experienced watercraft users. To increase safety, a number of U.S. consumer groups suggested that all boats should utilize the jet-drive mechanism (also called a pump-jet) employed by PWC manufacturers since this would reduce the risk of propeller injuries.\n\nAll boating accidents in the United States either occur on state- or federally-patrolled waters. Whether state or federal, reports must be filed for a predefined level of damage and are compiled by the United States Coast Guard (which uses the reported data for its annual BAR—Boating Accident Report—Statistical Reports). As automotive law-enforcement officers outnumber boating law-enforcement officers in the U.S., federal government reports for watercraft are comparatively fewer. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) conducted general investigation of the recreational-boating accident-reporting system in 1998 and compiled its findings in a published report. The NTSB's investigation emerged with data seen as representative of overall recreational boating; an example follows from the report's conclusion:\n\nInattention (attributed to 307 operators), inexperience (attributed to 296 operators), and inappropriate speed for the operating conditions (attributed to 246 operators) were the most frequently cited causes that contributed to the PWC accidents. One or more of these three causes were associated with 70 percent of the 814 accidents. A fourth cause, improper lookout (153), was associated with about one-fifth of the accidents.\n\nAccording to the aforementioned interpretation of the NTSB report: \n\nA study performed by the Red Cross in 1991 concluded that during the research period, PWC accidents were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population. This was later supported by a Coast Guard study presented to the State of Vermont in 1996. Both studies presented findings that the comparative accident rates for personal water craft were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population; the reports emphasized the high level of attention and publicity that PWC accidents receive.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, several states (including California and Florida, two jurisdictions which, according to the NTSB report, accounted for over 50 percent of all personal-water-craft accidents in the U.S.) changed their laws regarding the use of personal water craft. These amendments included the introduction of limits for wake-jumping, the prescribed use of a PWC within of another vessel, \"spraying\" activities, mandated operation of PWCs within of the shoreline, and age restrictions for operators (the operator age was raised from 12 to 16 years for all affected states, with Florida also introducing a mandatory boating-safety course for those under age 18). According to the State of California, these laws have directly contributed to an over-50-percent reduction in accidents.\n\nA notable fatality occurred on July 1, 2012 in Little Sabine Bay (near Pensacola Beach), Florida; retired astronaut Alan Poindexter was killed when the PWC he was riding was rammed by one operated by one of his sons.\n\nThe leading cause of PWC accidents among riders in 2007 was reckless or careless driving. According to the National Transportation Safety Board in the U.S., this accounted for 26.3 percent of all PWCs involved in accidents in 2007. Reckless driving has been defined in the Personal Watercraft Act of 2005 in the U.S. as follows:\nReckless driving is defined differently by state. For example, in Florida reckless driving on a PWC is defined as \"maneuvering a personal watercraft by weaving through congested vessel traffic, jumping the wake of another vessel unreasonably close or when visibility around the vessel is obstructed, or swerving at the last possible moment to avoid collision is classified as reckless operation of a vessel\".\nIn U.S. law, the penalties for operating a vessel in a negligent or reckless manner are defined as following:\n(a) A person operating a vessel in a negligent manner or interfering with the safe operation of a vessel, so as to endanger the life, limb, or property of a person is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 in the case of a recreational vessel, or $25,000 in the case of any other vessel.\n(b) A person operating a vessel in a grossly negligent manner that endangers the life, limb, or property of a person commits a class A misdemeanor.\nBecause of the increasing popularity of water sports (particularly PWC), the number of vessels in use has increased in the last several decades. According to the U.S. Coast Guard, the number of registered vessels was 8,557,857 in 1980 and 12,875,568 in 2007. This has resulted in more-crowded waterways and increased hazards. Because of the increased congestion caused by the number of vessels, a heightened need for attention and caution is required by operators. In 2007, 17.2 percent of all PWC-related accidents were caused by driver inattention.\n\nAs the market has grown for PWC manufacturers, vessel power has also increased. Modern PWC engines have more than 250 horsepower and can reach speeds of over . Excessive speed accounted for nearly 15 percent of all PWC-related accidents in 2007, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.\n\nThe steering characteristics of jet boats (including personal watercraft) when they are \"off throttle\" seem to differ from conventional steering. All recreational planing boats steer with thrust. Jet boats (including PWCs) generate that thrust with a moveable nozzle connected to a jet pump; propeller boats generate thrust through a downward-placed, exposed propeller. The fact that the propeller is placed downward in the water and is exposed means that even when it is not generating thrust that some amount of steering effect is possible. Jet boats have no downward projection, and achieve no additional steering effect from the device. If the operator of a jet boat releases the throttle, steering effectiveness decreases roughly in proportion to thrust reduction. The NTSB related an example of an off-throttle steering accident in the personal watercraft safety study of 1998: \nThe Florida Marine Patrol accident description states, \"[Operator] was\nattempting to make a turn south through a cut in the mangroves . . . . He was not real familiar with operating a jet ski with a passenger. When he attempted to make a left turn he let off the throttle which caused the PWC to lose steering capabilities. The forward momentum of the PWC took [operator] and passenger into the mangrove shoreline.\n[Operator] received a puncture wound to the left side of his neck . . . .\"\nAccording to the NTSB, 24 percent of reported PWC accidents list steering problems or loss of control as contributing factors; in Florida, it is the second-leading cause of PWC-related accidents. PWC manufacturers have been working to develop a system to prevent off-throttle steering. Modifications have been made to solve this problem in newer PWC models.\n\nBecause of the ease of operating a PWC, little training and experience is required to perform basic maneuvers of a PWC. The NTSB reported in 1998 that 32 percent of operators involved in accidents reported that they had operated a vessel between zero and ten times prior to the accident; 86 never, 75 once and 225 between 2 and 10 times. Of the 712 operators who were asked about training, 84 percent said they had received no training and the other 16 percent participated in some boating training. Regulations concerning training courses and age limits for operators vary by state and by country. In the U.S. the minimum operator age ranges from 12–18 years; young operators may require adult supervision on the vessel and training in accordance with local laws.\n\nOne particularly serious type of personal watercraft injury occurs when a female rider falls off the back of the craft and into the path of the craft's high-pressure water jet.The jet thrust is powerful enough to push water into the rider's orifices, which can result in severe internal injuries to the rider's vagina, rectum or anus, and possibly death.\n\nFor example, in 2014, the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District, Division One upheld in full a San Diego County jury verdict against Bombardier Recreational Products and two other defendants in favor of two plaintiffs injured simultaneously in a single 2007 fall from a PWC, which included awards, respectively, of $3.385 million and $1.063 million in compensatory damages (with liability divided in equal portions among the three defendants). The appellate court also affirmed awards of $1.5 million in punitive damages against BRP alone for each plaintiff (adding up to $3 million in punitive damages) which were based on the jury's express finding that BRP's conduct manifested a \"reckless or callous disregard for the rights of others\".\n\nHowever, on the other hand, there are also examples where the owner, operator, and/or user of the personal watercraft have been found entirely at fault by a jury without any fault whatsoever on the manufacturer. For example, in 2010 in a case venued in the federal court of the Middle District of Florida, a jury found the 2006 Sea-Doo safe and not defective as to design, warnings, manufacture, and that BRP was not negligent in the design of its product. BRP maintained the Sea-Doo was reasonably safe, state-of-the-art, compliant with industry standards as well as the U.S. Coast Guard's standards, and was not the cause of plaintiff's injuries and/or accident. The plaintiff testified she did not have any conversation with anyone concerning the use of protective gear, such as wet suit bottoms or equivalent protective clothing and was not provided any safety information before riding. During the trial, the operator admitted he saw, but chose not to read, the onboard warning label. He also admitted that he did not read the safety recommendations in the operator’s guide nor watch the safety video. Counsel for BRP in the Thomas case, Scott Sarason, commented on the case that, “Statistically speaking, the probability of the type of incident involved in this case is extremely rare. Owners, operators and passengers of personal watercrafts must think safety first. It’s important for people to realize that these watercraft are classified as boats. That’s why the watercraft industry has been working diligently with authorities like the U.S. Coast Guard to introduce programs like ‘Know Before You Go’ in an effort to prevent accidents and injuries.” The Thomas case is just one example, of a handful, where such a rare accident is caused by extraneous persons or factors (including, but not limited to, the presence of alcohol, operator inexperience/inattention, careless or reckless operation, violation of state/local boating laws, failure on the part of the operator and/or owner to convey necessary safety information provided by the manufacturer, etc.). \n"}
{"id": "48811741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48811741", "title": "Rene van Helsdingen", "text": "Rene van Helsdingen\n\nRene Peter Onno Rubiono van Helsdingen (born 25 February 1957) is a Dutch pianist and composer. \n\nHe studied classical music with Komter Loeber in Blaricum in the Netherlands from 1962–72. Then he studied jazz music with Terry Trotter and Lazlo Cser in Los Angeles in 1979. His earliest influences include Oscar Peterson, McCoy Tyner and Bill Evans. \n\nOver the years pianist René has recorded and produced for many different labels, such as Virgin, Timeless, WEA, Dureco, Zebra Acoustic, Pacific Music, Turning Point records, Munich Records, demajors Independent Music Industry Jakarta and his own labels: Relukreul records, and Helsdingen Music, The Netherlands. Helsdingen writes most of his repertoire. Australian newspaper \"The Age\" characterised him as \"A rewarding pianist who can play comfortably in the groove, or create more impressionistic patterns, or quiet, subtle musings. Perhaps the most notable quality of his solos is brevity. René allows himself a few extended workouts and avoids the trap of repeating himself or overstating his case.\" \n\nHelsdingen has organized many successful tours, projects and festivals sponsored by ngo’s , governmental institutions, companies to which he was responsible with regard to the control over the budgets made available.\n"}
{"id": "23604200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23604200", "title": "Robert Isabell", "text": "Robert Isabell\n\nBruce Robert Isabell (June 2, 1952 – July 8, 2009) was an American event planner who was behind lavish and innovative events including weddings and funerals of the richest and most famous. He helped make Christmas at the White House during the Presidency of Bill Clinton and helped create innovative events that made Studio 54 in Manhattan into the place to be in the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nIsabell was born in Duluth, Minnesota, where he worked in a flower shop as a youth. After graduating from high school he moved to Minneapolis.\n\nHe moved to New York City in the 1970s and was hired by Ian Schrager at Studio 54, after Schrager had seen the creative designs Isabell had developed while he was working for event planner Renny Reynolds who had done work at the club and was the leading planner in his day. Schrager described how Isabell \"never tried to do too much, it was never design on steroids, yet there was always the razzle-dazzle\".\n\nHe started on his own operating a floral shop within Bergdorf Goodman in Midtown Manhattan. He established \"a full-service event-production house\" in the city's West Village where he would oversee the creation of events around the world, in which the entire setting including flowers, lighting, sound and table decorations would be part of his craft. Anna Wintour of \"Vogue\" magazine described him as \"the king of the event world\" who was \"a magician\" and the first person that top hostesses would approach to create spectacular events. Isabell created roughly 30 events for writer and editor Tina Brown. She regarded him as \"sort of a genius\" who had the ability to \"take any space and make magic in it\". For over a decade, he designed the annual Met Ball for \"Vogue\".\n\nIn the late 1970s, he had four tons of glitter dumped on the floor of Studio 54 for a New Year's Eve event, with club co-owner Ian Schrager describing how guests felt \"like you were standing on stardust\". Bracketed between the 1986 wedding of Edwin Schlossberg to Caroline Kennedy and the 1996 nuptials of John F. Kennedy, Jr. and Carolyn Bessette, he worked on the 1994 funeral of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. For the July 1995 wedding of billionaire Robert Warren Miller's daughter Marie-Chantal to Pavlos, Crown Prince of Greece at Saint Sophia in Bayswater, London, Isabell created a virtual Greek temple in a tent, including pillars topped with roses, with a budget variously estimated at $5–8 million. For the wedding of Alexandra von Fürstenberg, Marie-Chantal's sister, to Prince Alexandre Egon von Fürstenberg, son of Diane von Fürstenberg, Isabell transformed a tent in Battery Park into a Chinese teahouse complete with a throne room that included hanging lanterns and bamboo trees. For Christmas 1998 at the Clinton White House, Isabell created a massive fir wreath with 1,500 lights individually colored a shade he called \"Presidential blue\". \n\nHis last project was an Independence Day event he co-prepared for Lally Weymouth in Southampton, New York. Ian Schrager stated that Isabell had headed home from The Hamptons on the night of July 4 and had not been heard from before his death.\n\nA resident of Manhattan's Greenwich Village, Isabell was found dead on July 8, 2009, aged 57, in his townhouse at 16 Minetta Lane, where he had suffered a fatal myocardial infarction (heart attack). He is survived by his mother, two brothers and a sister.\n"}
{"id": "40553209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40553209", "title": "The Sound of Music Live!", "text": "The Sound of Music Live!\n\nThe Sound of Music Live! is a television special that was originally broadcast by NBC on December 5, 2013. Produced by Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, the special was an adaptation of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\". The television special starred country singer and \"American Idol\" winner Carrie Underwood as Maria von Trapp, and was performed and televised live from Grumman Studios in Bethpage, New York.\n\nSpearheaded by NBC chairman Bob Greenblatt, the network positioned the special as being a live television \"event\". In preparing for the broadcast, Meron and Zadan emphasized the logistical challenges that they would face due to the live aspects of the special, and the fact that \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was an adaptation based on the musical itself and not the 1965 film version. Meron felt that if the telecast were successful, the concept could become \"another kind of entertainment that can exist on TV.\" By her request, Underwood's casting as Maria was personally endorsed by Julie Andrews, who starred in the 1965 film.\n\nThe production was met with mixed reviews; much of its criticism was directed towards the casting of Carrie Underwood to play Maria, whom critics (including the real-life von Trapp family) believed was not experienced enough in theatre to portray such an iconic role. While her vocal performance was praised, her acting was described by critics as \"amateur\", \"lifeless\" and lacking emotion. The production was a ratings success for NBC; with a total of 18.62 million live viewers, \"The Sound of Music Live!\" brought the network its highest Thursday night viewership for an entertainment program since the series finale of \"Frasier\" in 2004, and prompted NBC to sign Zadan and Meron on to produce more live musicals for the network in the future.\n\nMaria Rainer, a postulant at Nonnberg Abbey in Salzburg, is contemplating the day she has spent in the mountains (\"The Sound of Music\"). When she returns to the Abbey, she learns from the Mother Abbess that she is to be the new governess for the von Trappe children. Before she leaves the Abbey, Mother Abbess asks her to teach her the song that she's always singing (\"My Favorite Things\"). When Maria arrives at the von Trappe house, she is greeted coldly by the Captain and introduced to the children, who enter with military precision. Maria finds that the Captain has emotionally closed himself off since the death of his wife and decides to teach his children the basics of singing to gain their trust and acceptance.\n\nA month, later the captain returns home with Elsa Schraeder, whom he is courting, and their friend Max Detweiler, who is looking for the perfect local singing group to perform at the annual Kaltzberg Festival. When his children arrive dressed in clothes Maria had made from her old bedroom curtains he is outraged and embarrassed. Maria then confronts him and tells him how he does not know or understand his children and that they need him but this only upsets him more and he orders her to return to Nonnberg Abbey. However, upon hearing his children sing to Schraeder, his eyes are open to the truth Maria had been speaking and he embraces his children and ask Maria to stay on as governess.\n\nHe then throws a grand party for Schraeder and when the band plays the Ländler, the captain's youngest son asks Maria to teach him the dance and the captain steps in to help. As the two dance an unspoken attraction begins to arise in the two and Maria puts a stop to the dancing. However, this unspoken attraction did not go unnoticed by Brigitta who confronts Maria on this. Though Maria strongly denies it she begins to realize that Brigitta is telling the truth. Then, Schraeder calls the children out to say good night to the guests and Max is instantly smitten with the idea to have the children sing in the festival and during all the hustle and bustle Maria sneaks off unnoticed and returns to the Abbey, where she confides in the Mother Abbess that she has fallen in love with the captain but that she is ready to take the orders of poverty, obedience and chastity. The Mother Abbess denies her this and encourages her to take face her problem head-on and to find the life she was born to live.\n\nMaria then returns to the von Trapp home and is warmly greeted by the children, who no longer feel the joys of singing due to her sudden departure. When she finds out that the captain intends to marry Schraeder she decides to see her duties through until arrangements can be made for a new governess. However, the political differences between Schraeder and the captain cause the two to realize that they have no future together and she leaves. Meanwhile, the captain confronts Maria and the two admit their feelings for each other. The two agree to marry at the Abbey and while the two are on honeymoon, Germany invades Austria.\n\nWhen they return, the captain is ordered to accept a commission in the German Navy and report immediately to Bremerhaven. Maria, thinking quickly, hands the Admiral the program for the Kaltzberg Festival showing that the von Trapp Family Singers are scheduled to perform, so the captain couldn’t possibly leave right away. They are granted permission to perform. During the finale, Max announces that a guard of honor is waiting to escort the captain away as soon as the concert is over. Maria leads the family in one more song to which they escape to one by one and flee to the Abbey. The Nazi soldiers search the Abbey for the von Trapps to no avail, as the family decides to flee Austria over the mountains with Maria's help.\n\n\n\nBenanti had previously portrayed Maria von Trapp on Broadway in 1998. Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, who had previously worked with Borle on the NBC musical drama television series \"Smash\", served as executive producers. Other credits include Rob Ashford and Beth McCarthy-Miller as directors, Ashford also was the choreographer, Priscilla Taussig served as producer, David Chase as music director and Derek McLane as production designer. Catherine Zuber was costume designer and Bernie Telsey was the casting director. The production is taken from the book by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse and is based off the memoir, \"The Story of the Trapp Family Singers\" by Maria von Trapp.\n\nOn June 30, 2012, NBC's chairman Bob Greenblatt announced the network's plans to broadcast a live adaptation of the Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\" in 2013. On November 30, 2012, the network announced that country music and fourth season of \"American Idol\", winner performer Carrie Underwood would star as Maria von Trapp in the production. In a statement, Greenblatt justified Underwood's involvement, saying that \"[Maria] was an iconic woman who will now be played by an iconic artist.\" On September 16, 2013, NBC revealed the full cast of the special, and released a promotional image depicting Underwood as Maria von Trapp, wearing blond braids and a dirndl, referencing one of Julie Andrews' \"most iconic moments\" from the film adaptation. Prior to being cast, Underwood personally asked Andrews for her endorsement of the role and the production, stating that \"whenever I do a cover of somebody's song or whatever, I always get permission of the artist first.\"\n\nProduced on a budget of around $9 million, \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was broadcast live from a soundstage built at Grumman Studios in Bethpage, New York. NBC, as well as producers Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, emphasized that the production was not a remake of the film, but an adaptation of the musical itself; Meron iterated that \"the audience will discover, within the first few minutes of watching the show, that they are not seeing a TV version of the movie. They'll know right away it's \"The Sound of Music\", but it's a different \"Sound of Music\" than they are accustomed to seeing on film.\" Meron felt that if successful, the broadcast could \"open the door to another kind of entertainment that can exist on TV.\" He also praised the involvement of Underwood as the star of the production, believing that she was a quick learner, and \"has all of the qualities of Maria.\" Greenblatt was highly supportive of the project, as he was, in the words of Zadan, a \"passionate devotee of theater\". Zadan considered the production to be \"one of the profoundly complicated, amazing experiences we’ve ever had\", noting the additional challenges created by the live broadcast.\n\nPromoted by NBC as a \"three-hour holiday event\", \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was aired as part of a push by NBC to air more live entertainment specials. Among its most popular programs in recent years have been those with live components (such as \"The Voice\" and \"Sunday Night Football\"); NBC's Jennifer Salke believed that the increased level of social network interaction possible in a live broadcast, along with the feeling of being part of an \"event\", would encourage viewers to watch the special live instead of on-demand or from a recording. NBC's previous attempt at event television, \"The Million Second Quiz\", was met with mixed reviews and viewership, but NBC did indicate that Subway's advertising throughout the series brought a higher level of awareness to the brand. The television special was also the first live musical special in almost fifty years on NBC.\n\nRetail chain Walmart served as the presenting sponsor for \"The Sound of Music Live!\". NBC also produced five themed Walmart commercials to air throughout the special, featuring scenes of a family using products from the store set to songs from \"The Sound of Music\". The five ads were timed to air during the commercial break following the scene where the song was featured; NBC's advertising chief Dan Lovinger considered the ads to be a way to \"enhance the excitement\" of the presentation for families.\n\nPrior to the broadcast, members of the real-life von Trapp family were critical of casting Underwood to play Maria, agreeing with the notion that she would be a good singer but a poor actor. They suggested that Anne Hathaway, who played Fantine in the 2012 film adaptation of \"Les Misérables\" for which she won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, would have been a better choice. \"The Sound of Music Live!\" received mixed reviews from entertainment critics, commending the show for its scope and supporting cast while questioning Underwood's acting capabilities.\n\nKevin Fallon of \"The Daily Beast\" wrote: \"Naturally, Underwood sounded astounding, as alive as those damned hills, every time she was asked to stand on top of things and belt. But whether it was because of nerves or lack of experience, her acting was painfully lifeless and amateur throughout the first two thirds of the lengthy ordeal. The singer, it seems, is a proud graduate of the school of 'If I don't blink, they'll think I'm acting!'\" Verne Gay of \"Newsday\" liked Underwood's performance, commenting that not only could she sing, but \"she is a luminous stage presence who had the guts to take on one of the most iconic roles of the stage or screen.\"\n\nBrian Lowry of \"Variety\" described the production \"as lifeless as [its] alpine backdrops.\" Marc Bernardin of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" commended the production's aesthetics but called it a \"very expensive karaoke\", and he wrote that Underwood \"doesn’t acquit herself so well when it comes to the carrying the emotional weight of the production.\" He also panned Moyer, criticizing his vocal performance and describing \"his attempt at conveying an emotional hollowness\" as \"mildly constipated\" and \"clenched.\" However, he lauded Benanti, Borle and McDonald's \"strong\" performances.\n\n18.62 million viewers watched \"The Sound of Music Live!\", making it the most-watched program of the night. It had a 4.6 rating, 13 share in the 18–49 demographic, which led all networks. It attracted NBC's largest non-sports Thursday audience since the series finale of \"Frasier\" in 2004 (which averaged 22.6 million viewers), and NBC's largest non-sports audience on any night since the 2007 Golden Globe Awards. The special performed the best with women in the 25–54 demographic, reaching a household rating of 7.0 for that demographic during the primetime broadcast. It did particularly well in Oklahoma City, the capital of Underwood's home state, where it was watched by 28% of TV viewers. At least 38.69 million viewers watched a portion of \"The Sound of Music Live!\". Factoring in DVR viewership over the week following the broadcast, the special was viewed by 21.84 million, with 3.1 million within the first three days.\n\nFollowing its original airing, an encore presentation of \"The Sound of Music Live!\" aired on December 14, 2013, attracting 3.1 million viewers. It notably displaced one of NBC's two traditional airings of the film \"It's a Wonderful Life\" (the other being on Christmas Eve), which was bumped ahead to December 20, 2013.\n\nNBC's Bob Greenblatt considered the production to be a success, and signed Meron and Zadan to produce another live musical for the 2014 holiday season. Greenblatt felt that there were enough recognizable, family-friendly musicals to make events like \"The Sound of Music Live!\" an annual tradition, and he indicated that NBC received e-mails and phone calls from various theatrical rightsholders, expressing interest in having their musicals adapted in a similar fashion, In January 2014, NBC announced that it would broadcast a live version of \"Peter Pan\" in December 2014, and at NBC's upfronts in May 2014, Greenblatt announced that NBC had also obtained rights to produce an adaptation of \"The Music Man\", although the network did not announce any timeframe for the production. It was later revealed that \"The Music Man\" project was put on hold for a live performance of \"The Wiz\". Interest in the concept also spread to competing networks: in April 2014, Fox announced that it would produce a of \"Grease\", which aired in January 2016. NBC aired \"Hairspray Live!\" later that year.\n\nThe special also had an influence on viewership for ABC's annual broadcast of the 1965 film version of \"The Sound of Music\"; with 6.5 million viewers and a 1.3 share, it was ABC's highest-rated airing of the film since 2007, although it was beaten by NBC's \"Sunday Night Football\".\n\nThe broadcast has been nominated for four Emmy Awards for the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Music Direction, Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special, Outstanding Special Class Program and Outstanding Technical Direction, Camerawork, Video Control for a Miniseries, Movie, or Special in 2014. It won the Emmy for Outstanding Technical Direction, Camerawork, Video Control for a Miniseries, Movie, or Special.\n\nA soundtrack for the broadcast was released on December 3, 2013 and consists of 22 studio recordings. Walmart outlets exclusively released a nine-track instrumental (sing-along) bonus CD with the soundtrack. It peaked at number 17 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and number 2 on the \"Billboard\" Soundtracks chart. The soundtrack had sold 103,000 copies as of January 2, 2014.\n\nA DVD of the special was released on December 17, 2013, through Universal Studios Home Entertainment. The DVD includes a behind-the-scenes look, titled \"The Making of \"The Sound of Music Live!\"\" and a preview of the soundtrack. It was released on DVD in Canada on January 7, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23606990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23606990", "title": "Thevar Jayanthi", "text": "Thevar Jayanthi\n\nThevar Jayanthi, celebrated on 30 October, is an annual commemoration of the birthday of Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar. It is celebrated in a grand way by the Thevar community in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Although not an official public holiday, many schools and businesses in the area remain closed on the day.\n\nWhilst having been active in politics, it is mainly the spiritual discourse of Thevar that explains his following after his death. Also, the fact that his date of birth and death lie some close to each other has been interpreted as a sign of supernatural powers.\n\nOne of the main events on Thevar Jayanthi takes place at the \"samadhi\" (burial place) of Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar, located at some 50 miles distance from Madurai. Pilgrims gather to take part in the ceremonies at the \"samadhi\" on 30 October. In later years the ceremony at the \"samadhi\" has begun to attract prominent politicians.\n\nThe All India Forward Bloc, the political party to which Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar belonged, has demanded that Thevar Jayanthi be declared a public holiday in Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe event is not entirely uncontroversial. The CPI(ML) Liberation has charged that the Tamil Nadu government should stop sponsoring Thevar Jayanthi celebrations, claiming that the event is utilised by casteist forces.\n\nOn 30 October 2007, the birth centenary of Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar was celebrated. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi took part in the celebrations in Pasumpon village. This was the first time in two decades that Karunanidhi participated in Thevar Jayanthi. At the celebrations, Karunanidhi suggested that Madurai Airport be renamed after Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar. These moves were seen as an attempt by Karunanidhi's Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) party to challenge the supremacy of the rival All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) over the Thevar community. The AIADMK leader J. Jayalalitha criticised Karunanidhi's participation in the Thevar Jayanthi centenary programme, stating that he did not believe in Thevar's ideas. Moreover, she claimed that her previous government had allocated 30 million rupees for the Thevar Jayanthi centenary, but that Karunanidhi's government had spent only five million rupees.\n"}
{"id": "4225822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4225822", "title": "To the Last Man (Grey novel)", "text": "To the Last Man (Grey novel)\n\nTo the Last Man: A Story of the Pleasant Valley War is a western novel written by Zane Grey.\n\n\"To The Last Man\" is a shorter version of \"Tonto Basin\". Grey submitted the manuscript of \"Tonto Basin\" to the magazine \"The Country Gentleman,\" which published it in serialization as \"To the Last Man\" from May 28, 1921 through July 30, 1921. This was a much shorter version of the original leaving out much of the backstory. This shorter version was published by Harper Brothers.\n\nIt is a story of a family feud healed by young love. The story is based on a factual event involving the notorious Hashknife gang of Northern Arizona.\n\nThe story follows an ancient feud between two frontier families that is inflamed\nwhen one of the families takes up cattle rustling.\n\nThe ranchers are led by Jean Isbel and, on the other side, Lee Jorth and his band of cattle rustlers.\n\nIn the grip of a relentless code of loyalty to their own people, they fight the war of the Tonto Basin, desperately, doggedly, to the last man, neither side seeing the futility of it until it is too late. And in this volatile environment, young Jean finds himself hopelessly in love with a girl from whom he is separated by an impassable barrier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3017748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3017748", "title": "Types of fiction with multiple endings", "text": "Types of fiction with multiple endings\n\nMultiple endings refer to a case in entertainment where the story could end in different ways.\n\n\n\n\nDVDs may include an alternate ending as a special feature. These are usually not considered canon.\n\nFilms which include multiple endings within the main cut of the film:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33761097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33761097", "title": "Use error", "text": "Use error\n\nThe term use error has recently been introduced to replace the commonly used terms human error and user error. The new term, which has already been adopted by international standards organizations for medical devices (see #Use errors in health care below for references), suggests that accidents should be attributed to the circumstances, rather than to the human beings who happened to be there.\n\nThe term \"use error\" was first used in May 1995 in an MD+DI guest editorial, “The Issue Is ‘Use,’ Not ‘User,’ Error,” by William Hyman. Traditionally, human errors are considered as a special aspect of human factors. Accordingly, they are attributed to the human operator, or user.\nWhen taking this approach, we assume that the system design is perfect, and the only source for the use errors is the human operator. For example, the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) HFACS \nclassifies use errors attributed to the human operator, disregarding improper design and configuration setting, which often result in missing alarms, or in inappropriate alerting.\n\nThe need for changing the term was due to a common malpractice of the stakeholders (the responsible organizations, the authorities, journalists) in cases of accidents. Instead of investing in fixing the error-prone design, management attributed the error to the users.\nThe need for the change has been pointed out by the accident investigators: \n\nA mishap is typically considered as either a use error or a force majeure:\n\n\nIn 1998, Cook, Woods and Miller presented the concept of hindsight bias, exemplified by celebrated accidents in medicine, by a workgroup on patient safety\nThe workgroup pointed at the tendency to attribute accidents in health care to isolated human failures.\nThey provide references to early research about the effect of knowledge of the outcome, which was unavailable beforehand, on later judgement about the processes that led up to that outcome. They explain that in looking back, we tend to oversimplify the situation that the actual practitioners faces. They conclude focusing on the hindsight knowledge prevents our understanding of the richer story, the circumstances of the human error.\n\nAccording to this position, the term Use Error is formally defined in several international standards, such as IEC 62366, ISO 14155 and ISO 14971, to describe\n\nISO standards about medical devices and procedures provide examples of use errors, which are attributed to human factors, include slips, lapses and mistakes. Practically, this means that they are attributed to the user, implying the user’s accountability.\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration glossary of medical devices provides the following explanation about this term:\n\nWith this interpretation by ISO and the FDA, the term ‘use error’ is actually synonymous with ‘user error’.\nAnother approach, which distinguishes ‘use errors’ from ‘user errors', is taken by IEC 62366. Annex A includes an explanation justifying the new term:\n\nThis explanation complies with “The New View”, which Sidney Dekker suggested as an alternative to “The Old View”. This interpretation favors investigations intended to understand the situation, rather than blaming the operators.\n\nIn a 2011 report draft on health IT usability, the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) defines \"use error\" in healthcare IT this way: “Use error is a term used very specifically to refer to user interface designs that will engender users to make errors of commission or omission. It is true that users do make errors, but many errors are due not to user error per se but due to designs that are flawed, e.g., poorly written messaging, misuse of color-coding conventions, omission of information, etc.\".\n\nAn example of an accident due to a user error is the ecological disaster of 1967 caused by the Torrey Canyon supertanker. The accident was due to a combination of several exceptional events, the result of which was that the supertanker was heading directly to the rocks. At that point, the captain failed to change the course because the steering control lever was inadvertently set to the Control position, which disconnected the rudder from the wheel at the helm.\n\nExamples of the second type are the Three Mile Island accident described above, the NYC blackout following a storm and the chemical plant disaster in Bhopal, India (Bhopal Disaster).\n\nThe URM Model characterizes use errors in terms of the user’s failure to manage a system deficiency. Six categories of use errors are described in a URM document:\n\nErik Hollnagel argues that going from and 'old' view to a 'new' view is not enough. One should go all the way to a 'no' view. This means that the notion of error, whether user error or use error might be destructive rather than constructive. \nInstead, he proposes to focus on the performance variability of everyday actions, on the basis that this performance variability is both useful and necessary. In most cases the result is that things go right, in a few cases that things go wrong. But the reason is the same.\n\nHollnagel expanded on this in his writings about the efficiency–thoroughness trade-off principle\nof Resilience Engineering,\n\nand the Resilient Health Care Net.\n"}
{"id": "27903559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27903559", "title": "You Me Bum Bum Train", "text": "You Me Bum Bum Train\n\nYou Me Bum Bum Train is an Interactive theatre performance devised by Kate Bond and Morgan Lloyd in 2004. The pair met as art students in Brighton, where they were studying illustration and film.\n\n\"You Me Bum Bum Train\" gained critical acclaim in the United Kingdom when it was awarded the Oxford Samuel Beckett Theatre Trust prize while showing in a disused office in London. In 2010 it won the Evening Standard Theatre Award for outstanding newcomer. \n\nIt returned in 2012 in a former postal depot in Holborn, and a new version of the show – at Empire House in Stratford, east London in 2012 – was nominated for an Olivier Award for Outstanding Achievement in an Affiliate Theatre.\n\nIn 2015 the show was mounted again, this time in at what had been Foyles bookshop on London's Charing Cross Road where their last show, started on 25 February 2016, finished on 29 April.\n\nVisitors to the performance pass through a series of scenes of which they have no foreknowledge, in which they are either passive or where they must improvise a part without any preparation. Hanna Hanra, writing for \"Vice\", described it as a series of \"highly detailed, absurd real life scenarios following one another on a nonsense high-paced narrative\".\n\nThe entertainment magazine \"Dazed & Confused\" reported; \"What was one of London's more obtuse treasures is set to become one of Great Britain's proudest moments.\" \"The Times\" said; \"It leaves you questioning everything, and it's lots of fun.\" Time Out magazine wrote; \"My highlight of 2008 was You Me Bum Bum Train, if only real life were that interesting.\"\n\n\"You Me Bum Bum Train\" has provoked controversy due to the fact that none of the performers gets paid, though the directors stress that performers and crew are involved on a voluntary basis, that many are not trained professionals and that they are under no obligation to stay during performances.\n\nThe company was criticized for its ticketing system which caused problems for ticket buyers in June 2015.\n\nIn November 2015 the trade union Equity criticised their £150,000 Arts Council England funding as YMBBT were advertising for professional dancers but were not paying them, despite selling tickets \"at rates typical of a West End show.\" \n\nIn June 2016 the trade union BECTU criticised YMBBT for \"exploiting workers after advertising for unpaid production interns.\" BECTU launched an investigation concerning \"the legality of the “outrageous” internships, which would see successful applicants work at least two days each week for a minimum four hours each day.\" \n"}
