{"id": "1710895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1710895", "title": "Action alert", "text": "Action alert\n\nAn action alert is a message that an organization sends to mobilize people, often members of the group and supporters of a specific point of view, calling on them to take action to influence public policy. Typically, action alerts are in reference to a timely issue, where prompt action is needed in order to affect upcoming decisions.\n\nAction alerts are considered a cost-effective and efficient grassroots organizing tool and are employed widely by many advocacy organizations. A well-designed action alert can be a \"powerful way to invite people to participate in the processes of a democracy.\" \n\nAction alerts may, for instance, ask supporters to:\nAction alerts commonly begin by explaining the public policy issue to the recipients, and then tell the reader how they can impact the decision. Action alerts go by many other names. Amnesty International, for instance, refers to them as \"Urgent actions\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31916228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31916228", "title": "Body politic", "text": "Body politic\n\nThe body politic is a medieval metaphor that likens a nation to a corporation which had serious historical repercussions throughout recent history and therefore giving the Crown: \"As a legal entity today the Crown as executive is regarded as a corporation sole or aggregate\", a corporate entity. Maitland argues that the Crown (as a legal term) is a convenient cover for ignorance and traces the legal term Crown as corporation sole originally from the 16th century and argues that it was both a political and legal ploy originally reserved for the monarch of the day with the combination of medieval Roman law amalgamated into the early medieval domain of early church property law. The modern understanding of the concept means a body politic comprises all the people in a particular country considered as a single group. The analogy typically includes reference to the sovereign head of government as head of state, though the analogy may also be extended to other anatomical parts, as in political readings of Aesop's fable of \"The Belly and the Members\".\n\nA later European reference to the concept appears in \"The Book of the Body Politic\" (1407) by poet and court writer Christine de Pizan, in which she admits having borrowed the concept from a letter of Plutarch's to the Roman Emperor Trajan but does not mention John of Salisbury's work, \"Policraticus\". The metaphor appears in the French language as the \"corps-état\".\nThe metaphor was elaborated in the Renaissance, and subsequently, as medical knowledge based on Galen was challenged by thinkers such as William Harvey. Analogies were drawn between supposed causes of disease and disorder and their equivalents in the political field, viewed as plagues or infections that might be remedied with purges and nostrums.\n\n The term \"Body politic\" (the political body of society) derives from the mediæval political concept of the King's two bodies first noted by mediaeval historian Ernst Kantorowicz, as a point of theology as much as statehood. However, the person to give the concept some legal bite and codified reality, as much as legitimacy as well as Sovereignty, was the 14th century judge Sir William de Shareshull in 1351 for the offence of high treason in the aftermath of the Barons war. However, by the time of the fifteenth-century judge Sir John Fortescue the concept moves away from theology to jurisprudence in his \"The Difference between an Absolute and a Limited Monarchy\", written from exile in about 1462 . Fortescue explains that the \"character angelus\" (divine character) of the king is his royal power, derived from angels and separate from the frail physical powers of his body. However, he uses the phrase \"body politic\" itself only in its modern sense, to describe the realm, or shared rule, of Brutus, mythical first king of England, and how he and his fellow exiles had covenanted to form a body politic. Unusually for the time, Fortescue was writing in English and not Latin: \"made a body pollitike callid a reawme.\" The early medieval period (13th century) saw a general and radical shift in the idea of the political body and sovereignty and who was to be ultimate ruler of humankind.This constant shift in Translatio imperii and \"The Halo of perpetuity\"(Kantorowicz reasoning) transformed the king's persona from Liturgy to legal science, argues Kantorowicz. However, the Norman conquest proved one thing, quite surprisingly enough, the king wasn't the ultimate and major landowner with just 20% of land ownership as William the Conqueror found out to his disgust and chagrin, which ultimately led to the Domesday book being compiled. With Plenitudo potestatis, Unam sanctam (a Papal bull) extra Ecclesiam nulla salus and the Sun and moon allegory now part of the armoury of jurisdictional power of the papacy with both Canon law, and medieval political theology now becoming(part of the Scholastic movement beginning with Thomas Aquinas and John of Salisbury) a standard bearer for medieval political power which then descended into the infamous Inquisition and heresy (deviation from truth)as the ultimate legal reality which meant both the Roman Catholic Church and Papal supremacy couldn't be ignored(not without fear of excommunication and in some cases judicial execution). The church, which ultimately had powerful claims to sovereignty due to their immense wealth and vast monetary resources which included a clever taxation system establishing the legal validity of the tithe system which baffled legal experts of the day of its historical lineage and origin, such as Sir William Blackstone, for example, not its legal validity; such as their (the church's) enormous network and ownership of land, law making and the then-University and education system.\n\nIn 1550 the jurist Edmund Plowden merged Fortescue's concepts, at the same time removing them from abstraction into a real, physical manifestation in the body of the king. Plowden reports how lawyers codified this notion in an examination of a case of land-ownership turning on a disputed gift by an earlier monarch; they determined that the \"Body politic…that cannot be seen or handled…[is] constituted for the direction of the People…[and] these two bodies are incorporated in one person…the Body politic includes the [king's] Body natural.\" In 1609 Attorney General Edward Coke pronounced his dissenting opinion, that mortal power was God-made while the immortality of royal power existed only as a man-made concept; Coke later succeeded in limiting the royal power of both Charles I and James VI and I with his now infamous judgements of Case of Proclamations and his \"Petition of Right\", which triggered off the English Civil War and would have reverberations right across the country for the next 100 years. When the monarchy, in the person of Charles II, was restored at the end of the Commonwealth the idea remained current and royalty continued to use the notion, as a buttress to its authority, until an assertion of the rights of Parliament brought about the Glorious Revolution of 1688. In the 18th century English Barrister and judge Sir William Blackstone developed further the medieval idea and the legal argument (which still stands today) of the monarch in legal terms \"immortal\" with added emphasis of a quasi divine (\"character angelus\") status.\n\nThe pre-Revolution monarchs of France also claimed legitimacy on this principle, and extended it to include the idea that the king's heir assimilated the \"body politic\" of the old king, in a physical \"transfer of corporeality\", on accession.\n\n"}
{"id": "48465883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48465883", "title": "Comeback (publicity)", "text": "Comeback (publicity)\n\nA comeback, in terms of publicity, is a return by a well-known person to the activity in which they initially obtained their fame. Comebacks can occur in all walks of life, and have been noted to occur in entertainment, sports, and politics.\n\nA comeback may occur after a public figure has been forced to withdraw from the public eye due to a real or perceived scandal.\n\nAn entertainer may make a comeback after having been absent from their area of entertainment for a time.\n\nIn South Korea, Comeback (K-pop), talent agencies stage-manage the debut of new acts in order to create anticipation for the new act, which will often officially debut live on one of the main television music programs with a \"debut stage\". For the debut single, acts will have an overall \"concept\", a marketing hook, which influences the name of the act, clothes, choreography, catch phrases and how they are presented; within bands individual members will have a personal concept, this being a role that they will play within the band, e.g. leader, visual, maknae, rapper e.t.c. Once a rookie act's debut cycle has ended they enter their second promotional cycle with a \"comeback\", called as such even when the musician or group in question did not go on hiatus. Each promotional cycle will be presented with its own concept.\n\nIn sports, a comeback occurs where an athlete or a team returns to success after a period of poor performance or inactivity. \"The comeback may be the most compelling phenomenon in sports. ... Comebacks in individual sports like tennis, boxing, or golf occur more commonly than in team sports, as athletes in these games have more control over their destiny\".\n\nA politician may make a comeback after having left public life, either voluntarily or through loss of an election.\n"}
{"id": "1997407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997407", "title": "Criminalization", "text": "Criminalization\n\nCriminalization or criminalisation, in criminology, is \"the process by which behaviors and individuals are transformed into crime and criminals\". Previously legal acts may be transformed into crimes by legislation or judicial decision. However, there is usually a formal presumption in the rules of statutory interpretation against the retrospective application of laws and only the use of express words by the legislature may rebut this presumption. The power of judges to make new law and retrospectively criminalise behaviour is also discouraged. In a less overt way, where laws have not been strictly enforced, the acts prohibited by those laws may also undergo \"de facto\" criminalization through more effective or committed legal enforcement.\n\nThere has been some uncertainty as to the nature and extent of the contribution to be made by the victims of crime. But, as Garkawe (2001) indicates, the relationship between victimology and criminology has become problematic. The concern is that, within the dialectic of Right Realism and Left Realism, a focus on the victim promotes rights selectively for certain victims, and advocates the assumption that some victim rights are more important than competing rights or values in society. For example, an Islamic feminist might seek consistency of treatment for women as victims and, therefore, demand the decriminalization of abortion, adultery, and seduction (Zina is a Hudud offense in sharia law), and the criminalization of domestic violence and sexual harassment.\n\nIn formal academically published theory, the real ruling class of a society reaches a temporary view on whether certain acts or behavior are harmful or criminal. Historically this one theory will be modified by scientific, medical evidence, by political change, and the criminal justice system may or may not treat those matters as crimes.\n\nConversely, when local politics determines that it is no longer a crime, they may be decriminalized. For example, Recommendation No. R (95) 12 adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the management of criminal justice, advocates that crime policies such as decriminalization, depenalisation or diversion, and mediation should be adopted wherever possible. But the law and order debate between right and left politicians is often superficial and unscientific, formulating policies based on their appeal to an uniformed electorate rather than properly conducted research.\n\nSeveral principles may underpin decisions about criminalization. These include the \"de minimis\" principle, that of the minimum criminalization. Under this principle, the general harm principle fails to consider the possibility of other sanctions and the effectiveness of criminalization as a chosen option. Those other sanctions include civil courts, laws of tort and regulation. Having criminal remedies in place is seen as a \"last resort\" since such actions often infringe personal liberties – incarceration, for example, prevents the freedom of movement. In this sense, law making that places a greater emphasis on human rights. Most crimes of direct actions (murder, rape, assault, for example) are generally not affected by such a stance, but it does require greater justification in less clear cases.\n\nThe policy of \"social defense\" can be seen as an opposing view. It argues that criminalization is used against \"any form of activity which threatens good order or is thought reprehensible\". The minimization principle may unwittingly prevent the adaptation of the law to new situations. In general, worldwide policy makers have created a myriad of smaller offences, in contradiction to the minimization principle and more in keeping with the social defence.\n\nLeading criminal law philosophers, such as Dennis Baker and Joel Feinberg have argued that conduct should only be criminalized when it is fair to do so. In particular, such theorists assert that objective reasons are needed to demonstrate that it is fair to criminalize conduct in any given case. The commonly cited objective justification for invoking the criminal law is harm to others, but it cannot deal with all situations. For example, people are not necessarily harmed by public nudity. Feinberg suggests that offence to others also provides an objective reason for invoking the criminal law, but it clearly does not as offence is determined according to conventional morality. Prostitution is another grey area, as some countries allow it in different forms, and it is hard to say whether or not it specifically harms the public in general. One argument may be that prostitution perpetuates the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS, and therefore harms the public which partakes in the act of prostitution. However, the legalization of prostitution would change the way it is regulated, and law enforcement could find a way to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted disease, thus eliminating the health issue and the question of the morality of the profession would be weakened.\n\nPeople experience a range of physical and social injuries in different contexts which will vary according to the level of economic and political development of their country. Some will be injured out of poverty and malnutrition, others by violence which might stem from a major conflict such as war or from the personal violence in a robbery. The environment may be damaged by pollution, there may be hazards at work. Many of these sources of injury will be ignored while the state may delegate powers of control to a number of different agencies within an international framework where supranational agencies and human rights organisations may offer assistance in responding to the causes of those injuries.\n\nThe extent to which behaviours considered morally wrong in a given jurisdiction should be criminalized is controversial. Lying or breaking promises are not in general criminalised, for example. Patrick Devlin believed that moral behaviour was essential in maintaining the cohesion of a state, and so lawmakers should be entitled to criminalise immoral behaviour. However, opponents of this approach typically suggest use of a harm principle only and that immorality is not a reason in itself since outcomes of such activity can be used to come to a conclusion alone. Devlin's argument uses the disgust of the general public as a definition of morality; however, issues involving prejudice have shown this to be flawed and opponents push for a much stricter definition if this approach is to be used. Devlin suggested a jury to give an indication of immoral behaviour. As well as prejudice, views were likely to vary widely on issues such as homosexuality, contraception and other matters, particularly those influenced by religion. Agreement would be hard to find. Other opposition has been from liberal groups which favour approaches which maximise individual rights. A moral basis for criminalization would be paternalistic, thereby contrasting with personal autonomy. The European Convention of Human Rights, in the most part supporting individual rights from government interferences, still includes a provision for interference \"for the protection of health and morals\" such as legally requiring seat belts to be worn (in some jurisdictions) are hard to justify if an individualistic approach is taken, since, if public health provision is ignored, little harm is caused to others.\n\nJoseph Raz argues that the state cannot and should not enforce morality; rather, any attempt to limit individual autonomy should be done only to limit harm. Certain moral ideals may be justifiable if they extend autonomy. If the immoral conduct of others impinges on someone else's autonomy, then that can be legislated against. There are some groups for whom the principle of autonomy is weakened: those under an age of majority and those people who are impaired by, for example, a mental disorder. In general, these people are protected from activities with significant consequences, if they are not in a position to make reasoned decisions themselves. This may involve the criminalization of under-age drinking, smoking, gambling and sexual activities. Such criminalization is rarely challenged.\n\nIn British law, a distinction between public and private acts was made in the Wolfenden report, which examined sexual activities (particularly homosexuality and prostitution). Some acts would effectively become legal within private settings, but illegal in public settings. The justification for this was the concept of shock or offensive to the public. Such a line was favoured by Joel Feinberg, who argued that it was a good reason in support of legislation if it effectively prevented \"serious offence\" to persons other than the actor. Philosophers such as Feinberg struggle to quantify the ideology behind the illegality of acts which in another setting would be acceptable (that acts themselves not causing harm, for example), for example nudity. Since such acts publicly are made illegal on the basis of shock, then whether to criminalise depends on a shifting body of public opinion, which varies from place to place and from time to time. The concept of \"insult\" rather than \"offensive\" may be more specific.\n\nCommon law does not often find an actor liable for omission – failing to do something required by the law. Where this has applied it has typically been in industrial regulation, in matters of social security or some personal regulated activity such as driving (for example, in the case of a hit and run). These form conditions placed upon operating in a particular manner and are thus understood in that context. There are few general duties in common law jurisdictions, although these do include the responsibility of a parent to safeguard their children, to a landowner to prevent offences being carried out there, and to someone creating a dangerous situation to attempt to limit that danger. Proponents of limited liability for omissions suggest that the wording for such a law would be vague, possibly involving \"reasonable\" care or action, and so would be hard to enforce. This would give prosecutors wide discretion, which may be opposed to justice. Morally, omission is viewed by many as a far lesser problem than act; compared to murder, allowing someone to die is seen as much smaller. A requirement to spend one's time and energy helping others would seem to contradict the autonomy many other laws aim to provide the individual with.\n\nOpponents point out these arguments fail to consider the harm that such omissions may cause, in contradiction to the harm principle many legal systems start out with. Life and physical integrity are often the highest priorities of a legal system. Difficulties in definition are in common with many other areas, theorists such as Feinburg point out. A non-burdensome rescue is likely to be less valuable than freedom of action. Limited liability is considered as article 223 of the French Penal Code, which criminalises: \"(1) a person who voluntarily neglects to prevent a serious crime of offense against that person, if that crime could be prevented without personal risk or risk to others; and (2) a person who voluntarily neglects to give, to a person in peril, assistance which could be rendered without personal risk or risk to others.\" This is common with several other European jurisdictions. Whilst open to the criticisms of vagueness and prosecutor discretion, it has not been seen as overly oppressive.\n\nWhen a state debates whether to respond to a source of injury by criminalising the behaviour that produces it, there are no pre-set criteria to apply in formulating social policy. There is no ontological reality to crime. The criminal justice system responds to a substantial number of events that do not produce significant hardship to individual citizens. Moreover, events which do cause serious injuries and perhaps should be dealt with as crimes, e.g. situations of corporate manslaughter, are either ignored or dealt with as civil matters.\n\nThe criminalization process defines and classifies behaviour. It broadcasts the laws so that no-one may have the excuse of ignorance, and disposes of those who will not obey. There are now more criminal laws and they are penetrating deeper into the social structures of modern societies. Crime control has become an industry, yet it remains ineffective in providing protection to all its citizens from harm. Such as it is, the process is made up of three components:\n\nPut in the most simple terms, ontology deals with or establishes the clear grounds for being. (Heidegger, Martin, Being and Time, introduction, referencing Plato's Parmenides.) In some of the traditional schools, such as those of the post-1688 English or Americans (many of the writings of the American Founding Fathers, but especially The Federalist) and their Dutch predecessors (see Kossmann, E. H. Political Thought in the Dutch Republic, 2004) ontology proper is deemed beyond the scope of legal thought, in accord with the modern distinction between society and state (which some consider based in the distinction the Romans made between themselves and their Italian allies, the socii, but not given the theoretical articulation we recognize today until emphasized by Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan. See state.) However, some classical theorists, such as Aristotle, in his Politics and Metaphysics, and to a lesser degree in his Topics, suggest that the distinction is at least problematic. One need consider no further than the claim that man is a political animal to see this is so.\n\nAs a political animal, man has come to see himself as possessed of rights, whether these are the Rights of Englishmen of old, or the universal human rights advocated vigorously toward establishment today through the matrix of commercialism. At least in the today dominant American model, deprivation of right amounts to injury (consider especially Justice Stevens dissenting opinion in Castle Rock v. Gonzales), and injury—so goes the prevailing theory—amounts, when coupled with requisite intent, in most cases, to crime, when it does not admit of civil redress. Thus, again in simple terms, and to the extent that human beings are indeed political beings, crime does seem to have an ontological basis. (For one approach to the question of criminal ontology, see \"Understanding Crime and Social Control in Market Economies: Looking Back and Moving Forward\" by Robert Bohm in Jeffrey Ian Ross, ed. Cutting the Edge: Current Perspectives in Radical/Critical Criminology and Criminal Justice. Westport, Conn: Praeger, 1998.) This, further, seems to hold if ontology itself is divided into political and trans- or supra- or meta- political ontology—i.e., what once was the realm of Christian theology. Of course, it does not matter whether that theology is Christian or belonging to some other apolitical belief. The point is that one may, with some justice, argue persuasively that being is divided. This need not, however, force the question of meta-political crimes. Our purposes here, in this article, are limited to the political. For the question in general see Ontology.\n\nBaker argues that only objective harms and other objective bad consequences (or actions in the case of inchoate and endangerment offenses) are prima facie criminalizable. By other bad consequences Baker means privacy violations and conduct that does not necessarily result in tangible harm, but does result in unwanted consequences. Baker argues that the privacy violations that result from being forced to receive unwanted obscene information in public places (exhibitionism) would amount to a sufficient bad consequence for the purposes of invoking the criminal law, but argues that proportionate punishment means that such conduct should only be punished with fines rather than jail terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362102", "title": "Crossing the floor", "text": "Crossing the floor\n\nIn politics, crossing the floor is when a politician changes their allegiance or votes against their party in a Westminster system parliament. Crossing the floor may be voting against the approved party lines, or changing to another party after being elected while a member of a first party. While these practices are legally permissible, crossing the floor can lead to controversy and media attention. As well, voting against party lines may lead to consequences such as losing a position (e.g., as minister or a portfolio critic) or being ejected from the party caucus. Maldives and Bangladesh have laws which removes the member from parliament due to floor-crossing.\n\nThe term originates from the British House of Commons, which is configured with the Government and Opposition facing each other on rows of benches. In consequence, an MP who switches from the governing party to one in opposition (or vice versa) also changes which side of the chamber they sit on. A notable example of this is Winston Churchill, who crossed the floor from the Conservatives to the Liberals in 1904, before later crossing back in 1924.\n\nThe term has passed into general use in other Westminster parliamentary democracies (such as Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa) even if many of these countries have semicircular or horseshoe-shaped debating chambers and mechanisms for voting without Members of Parliament leaving their seats. In most countries, it is most often used to describe members of the government party or parties who defect and vote with the opposition against some piece of government-sponsored legislation, but that usage is not widespread in Canada, where the term's usage is restricted to the original definition.\n\nMost political parties let their members have a free vote on some matters of personal conscience.\n\nIn Australia, one of the major parties (the Australian Labor Party) requires its members to pledge their support for the collective decisions of the Caucus, which theoretically prohibits them from crossing the floor; however, in practice, some Labor members disregard this pledge despite the disciplinary action which may result. Among other parties, crossing the floor is rare although former Senator Barnaby Joyce of the National Party of Australia crossed the floor 19 times under the Howard coalition government. Nonetheless, the record for crossing the floor in the Australian Parliament goes to Tasmanian Senator Sir Reg Wright, who voted against his own party (the Liberal Party of Australia) on 150 occasions.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Canada, and other countries, the term is also used to describe leaving one's party entirely and joining another party, such as leaving an opposition party to support the government (or vice versa), or even leaving one opposition party to join another. In both Canada and the United Kingdom, the term carries only this meaning and is not used for a simple vote against the party line on a bill.\n\nIn April 2006, the premier of Manitoba, Canada, Gary Doer of the New Democratic Party of Manitoba, proposed a ban on crossing the floor of the Manitoba legislature in response to \"the concern some voters have expressed over the high-profile defections of three federal MPs from their parties in just over two years.\" The resulting legislation, which amended the provincial \"Legislative Assembly Act\", mandated that Members of the Legislature who quit their political party must serve out the remainder of their term as independents.\n\nAn extraordinary example occurred in Alberta, Canada in December 2014 when Danielle Smith, the leader of the official opposition Wildrose Party, and eight of her MLAs crossed the floor together to join the governing Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta.\n"}
{"id": "38051973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38051973", "title": "Death in office", "text": "Death in office\n\nA death in office is the death of a person who was incumbent of an office-position until the time of death. Such deaths have been usually due to natural causes, but they are also caused by accidents and murders.\n\nThe death of most monarchs and popes have been deaths in office, since they have usually held their papacy/reign for the rest of their lives. Otherwise as most office positions require that the person is constantly competent in performing the associated duties, deaths in office are usually premature deaths.\n\nSystems differ in how they deal with the death of an office holder. In some death results in a casual vacancy, whereby the office is unfilled for a time. The office may subsequently be filled by a by-election or by appointment. A person may temporarily take the powers and responsibilities of the deceased in an \"acting\" capacity before a permanent replacement is made. In other systems there may be a legally defined order of succession. For example, in hereditary monarchies reigns are typically expected to end with death and the transition of power to an heir. Many presidential systems have offices of vice president, whose principle responsibility is to immediately assume the presidency if the president dies or otherwise leaves the office.\n\n\nSir John Maybin colonial governors of Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia) (1941)\n"}
{"id": "15039439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15039439", "title": "Extrajudicial killing", "text": "Extrajudicial killing\n\nAn extrajudicial killing (also known as extrajudicial execution) is the killing of a person by governmental authorities without the sanction of any judicial proceeding or legal process. Extrajudicial punishments are mostly seen by humanity to be unethical, since they bypass the due process of the legal jurisdiction in which they occur. Extrajudicial killings often target leading political, trade union, dissident, religious, and social figures and are only those carried out by the state government or other state authorities like the armed forces or police, as extra-legal fulfillment of their prescribed role.\n\nSection 3(a) of the United States Torture Victim Protection Act contains a definition of extrajudicial killing:\n\nExtrajudicial killings and death squads are common in Syria, Iraq, Egypt, Libya, Central America, India, Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Venezuela, Indonesia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh, several nations or regions in Africa, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi, Jamaica, Kosovo, Russia, Uzbekistan, parts of Thailand, Turkey, in the Philippines, Tajikistan,El Salvador, Papua New Guinea, and by Israeli forces. One of the most recent issues regarding extrajudicial killing has been the debate about the legal and moral status of targeted killing by unmanned aerial vehicles by the United States.\n\nArgentina's dictatorial government during the 1976–1983 period used extrajudicial killings systematically as way of crushing the opposition in the so-called \"Dirty War\" or what is known in Spanish as \"La Guerra Sucia\". During this violent period, it is estimated that the military regime killed between eleven thousand and fifteen thousand people and most of the victims were known or suspected to be opponents of the regime. These included intellectuals, labor leaders, human rights workers, priests, nuns, reporters, politicians, and artists as well as their relatives. Authorities Half of the number of extra-judicial killings were reportedly carried out by the murder squad that operated from a detention center in Buenos Aires called \"Escuela Mecanica de la Armada\". The dirty wars in Argentina sometimes triggered even more violent conflicts since the killings and crackdowns precipitated responses from insurgents.\n\nBangladeshi special security force Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) has long been known for extrajudicial killing. In a leaked WikiLeaks cable it was found that RAB was trained by the UK government. 16 RAB officials (sacked afterwards) including Lt Col (sacked) Tareque Sayeed, Major (sacked) Arif Hossain, and Lt Commander (sacked) Masud Rana were given death penalty for abduction, murder, concealing the bodies, conspiracy and destroying evidences in the Narayanganj Seven Murder case.\n\nBeside this lots of alleged criminals were killed by Bangladesh police by the name of Crossfire. In 2018, many alleged drug dealers were killed in the name of \"War on Drugs\" in Bangladesh.\n\nIn 1999 Belarusian opposition leaders Yury Zacharanka and Viktar Hanchar together with his business associate Anatol Krasouski disappeared. Hanchar and Krasouski disappeared the same day of a broadcast on state television in which President Alexander Lukashenko ordered the chiefs of his security services to crack down on “opposition scum”. Although the State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus (KGB) had them under constant surveillance, the official investigation announced that the case could not be solved. The disappearance of journalist Dzmitry Zavadski in 2000 has also yielded no results. Copies of a report by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which linked senior Belarusian officials to the cases of disappearances, were confiscated. Human Rights Watch claims that Zacharanka, Hanchar, Krasouski and Zavadski likely became victims of extrajudicial executions.\n\nWhen General Augusto Pinochet assumed power in 1973, he immediately ordered the purges, torture, and deaths of more than 3,000 supporters of the previous government without trial. During his regime, which lasted from 1973 to 1989, elements of the military and police continued committing extrajudicial killings. These included Manuel Contreras, the former head of Chile's National Intelligence Directorate (DINA), which served as Pinochet's secret police. He was behind numerous assassinations and human rights abuses such as the 1974 abduction and forced disappearance of Socialist Party leader Victor Olea Alegria. Some of the killings were also coordinated with other right-wing dictatorships in the Southern Cone in the so-called Operation Condor. There were reports of United States' Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) involvement, particularly within its activities in Central and South America that promoted anti-Communist coups. While CIA's complicity was not proven, American dollars supported the regimes that carried out extrajudicial killings such as the Pinochet administration. CIA, for instance, helped create DINA and the agency admitted that Contreras was one of its assets. \n\nDuring the Salvadoran civil war, death squads achieved notoriety when far-right vigilantes assassinated Archbishop Óscar Romero for his social activism in March 1980. In December 1980, four Americans—three nuns and a lay worker—were raped and murdered by a military unit later found to have been acting on specific orders. Death squads were instrumental in killing hundreds of peasants and activists, including such notable priests as Rutilio Grande. Because the death squads involved were found to have been soldiers of the Salvadoran military, which was receiving U.S. funding and training from American advisors during the Carter administration, these events prompted outrage in the U.S. and led to a temporary cutoff in military aid from the Reagan administration, although death squad activity stretched well into the Reagan years (1981–1989) as well.\n\nHonduras also had death squads active through the 1980s, the most notorious of which was Battalion 316. Hundreds of people, including teachers, politicians and union bosses, were assassinated by government-backed forces. Battalion 316 received substantial support and training from the United States Central Intelligence Agency.\n\nIn 1953 a regime was installed through the efforts of the American CIA and the British MI6 in which the Shah (hereditary monarch) Mohammad Reza Pahlavi used SAVAK death squads (also trained by the CIA) to imprison, torture and/or kill hundreds of dissidents. After the 1979 revolution death squads were used to an even greater extent by the new Islamic government. In 1983, the CIA gave the Supreme Leader of Iran—Ayatollah Khomeini—information on KGB agents in Iran. This information was probably used. The Iranian government later used death squads occasionally throughout the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s; however by the 2000s it seems to have almost entirely, if not completely, ceased using them.\n\nIraq was formed by the partition and domination of various tribal lands by the British in the early 20th century. Britain granted independence to Iraq in 1932, on the urging of King Faisal, though the British retained military bases and transit rights for their forces. King Ghazi of Iraq ruled as a figurehead after King Faisal's death in 1933, while undermined by attempted military coups, until his death in 1939. The United Kingdom invaded Iraq in 1941 (see Anglo-Iraqi War), for fear that the government of Rashid Ali al-Gaylani might cut oil supplies to Western nations, and because of his links to the Axis powers. A military occupation followed the restoration of the Hashemite monarchy, and the occupation ended on October 26, 1947. Iraq was left with a national government led from Baghdad made up of Sunni ethnicity in key positions of power, ruling over an ad-hoc nation splintered by tribal affiliations. This leadership used death squads and committed massacres in Iraq throughout the 20th century, culminating in the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein.\n\nThe country has since become increasingly partitioned following the Iraq War into three zones: a Kurdish ethnic zone to the north, a Sunni center and the Shia ethnic zone to the south. The secular Arab socialist Baathist leadership were replaced with a provisional and later constitutional government that included leadership roles for the Shia (Prime Minister) and Kurdish (President of the Republic) peoples of the nation. This paralleled the development of ethnic militias by the Shia, Sunni, and the Kurdish (Peshmerga).\n\nThere were death squads formed by members of every ethnicity. In the national capital of Baghdad some members of the now-Shia police department and army (and militia members posing as members of police or armed forces) formed unofficial, unsanctioned, but long-tolerated death squads. They possibly had links to the Interior Ministry and were popularly known as the 'black crows'. These groups operated night or day. They usually arrested people, then either tortured or killed them.\n\nThe victims of these attacks were predominantly young males who had probably been suspected of being members of the Sunni insurgency. Agitators such as Abdul Razaq al-Na'as, Dr. Abdullateef al-Mayah, and Dr. Wissam Al-Hashimi have also been killed. These killings are not limited to men; women and children have also been arrested and/or killed. Some of these killings have also been part of simple robberies or other criminal activities.\n\nA feature in a May 2005 issue of the magazine of the \"New York Times\" claimed that the U.S. military had modelled the \"Wolf Brigade\", the Iraqi interior ministry police commandos, on the death squads used in the 1980s to crush the left-wing insurgency in El Salvador.\n\nWestern news organizations such as \"Time\" and \"People\" disassembled this by focusing on aspects such as probable militia membership, religious ethnicity, as well as uniforms worn by these squads rather than stating the United States-backed Iraqi government had death squads active in the Iraqi capital of Baghdad.\n\nA form of extrajudicial killing called police encounters is common in India. Such encounters are being staged also by military and security forces.\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) has called the massacre the single deadliest event for journalists in history. Even prior to this, the CPJ had labeled the Philippines the second most dangerous country for journalists, second only to Iraq.\n\nFollowing the election of President Rodrigo Duterte in 2016, a campaign against illegal drugs has led to widespread extrajudicial killings. This follows the actions by then-Mayor Duterte to roam Davao in order to \"encounter to kill\".\n\nThe Philippine president has urged its citizens to kill suspected criminals and drug addicts, ordered the police to adopt a shoot-to-kill policy has offered bounties for dead suspects, and has even admitted to personally killing suspected criminals.\n\nThe move has sparked widespread condemnation from international publications and magazines, prompting the Philippine government to issue statements denying the existence of state-sanctioned killings.\n\nThough Duterte’s controversial war on drugs was opposed by the United States under President Barack Obama, the European Union, and the United Nations, Duterte claims that he has received approving remarks from US President Donald Trump.\n\nOn a news report of ABS-CBN dated September 26, 4:17 PM, Duterte issued guidelines that would enable the United Nations Rapporteur on Extrajudicial Killings to probe the rising death toll. On a news report of GMA News dated December 14, 10:24 PM, Duterte cancelled the planned visit of the Rapporteur for failure of the latter to accept the conditions for the probe.\n\nIn Soviet Russia since 1918 Cheka was authorized to execute \"counterevolutionaries\" without trial. Hostages were also executed by Cheka during the Red Terror in 1918–1920.\n\nThe successors of Cheka also had the authority for extrajudicial executions. In 1937–38 hundreds of thousands where executed extrajudicially during the Great Purge under the lists approved by NKVD troikas. In some cases the Soviet special services did not arrest and then execute their victims but just secretly killed them without any arrest. For example, Solomon Mikhoels was murdered in 1948 and his body was run over to create the impression of a traffic accident. The Soviet special services also conducted extrajudicial killings abroad, most notably of Leon Trotskiy in 1940 in Mexico, Stepan Bandera in 1959 in Germany, Georgi Markov in 1978 in London.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, a number of journalist murders were attributed to public administration figures, usually where the publications would reveal their involvement in large corruption scandals.\n\nIt has been regarded that the Alexander Litvinenko murder was linked to Russian special forces.\n\nUSA and UK intelligence agents reportedly claim that Russian assassins, some possibly at orders of the government, are behind at least fourteen targeted killings on British soil that police called non-suspicious.\n\nIn a report, Amnesty International documented incidents that \"appear to have been extrajudicial executions\" against Palestinian civilians. Those incidents occurred after Palestinians attempted to attack, and murder, Israelis, but even though the attackers did not pose a serious threat due to soldiers' armor, they were shot without ensuring that the threat was real and without attempt to arrest suspects before resorting to the use of lethal force.\n\nReportedly thousands of extrajudicial killings occurred during the 2003 anti-drug effort of Thailand's prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra.\n\nRumors still persist that there is collusion between the government, rogue military officers, the radical right wing, and anti-drug death squads.\n\nBoth Muslim and Buddhist sectarian death squads still operate in the south of the country.\n\nIn 1990 Amnesty International published its first report on extrajudicial executions in Turkey. In the following years the problem became more serious. The Human Rights Foundation of Turkey determined the following figures on extrajudicial executions in Turkey for the years 1991 to 2001:\nIn 2001 the UN Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, Ms. Asma Jahangir,\npresented a report on a visit to Turkey. The report presented details of killings of prisoners (26 September 1999, 10 prisoners killed in a prison in Ankara; 19 December 2000, an operation in 20 prisons launched throughout Turkey resulted in the death of 30 inmates and two gendarmes).\n\nFor the years 2000–2008 the Human Rights Association (HRA) gives the following figures on doubtful deaths/deaths in\ncustody/extra judicial execution/torture by paid village guards\nIn 2008 the human rights organization Mazlum Der counted 25 extrajudicial killings in Turkey.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, members of the British armed forces, the Royal Ulster Constabulary, and British agents, on occasion killed without lawful excuse during The Troubles. Brian Nelson, an Ulster Defence Association member and British Army agent was convicted of sectarian murders.\n\nThe legality of killings such as in the death of Osama bin Laden in 2011 have been brought into question. In that case, the US defended itself claiming the killing was not an assassination but an act of \"National Self Defense\".\nThere had been just under 2,500 assassinations by targeted drone strike by 2015, and these too have questioned as being extrajudicial killings.\nConcerns about targeted and sanctioned killings of non-Americans and American citizens in overseas counter-terrorism activities have been raised by lawyers, news firms and private citizens. On September 30, 2011 a drone strike in Yemen killed American citizens Anwar al-Awlaki and Samir Khan. Both individuals resided in Yemen at the time of their deaths. The executive order approving Al-Awlaki's death was issued by Barack Obama in 2010, was and challenged by the American Civil Liberties Union and the Center for Constitutional Rights in that year. The U.S. president issued an order, approved by the National Security Council, that Al-Awlaki's normal legal rights as a civilian should be suspended and his death should be imposed, as he was a threat to the United States. The reasons provided to the public for approval of the order were Al-Awlaki's links to the 2009 Fort Hood Massacre and the 2009 Christmas Day bomb plot, the attempted destruction of a Detroit-bound passenger-plane. The following month, al-Awlaki's son was killed by mistake by another US drone strike.\n\nNguyễn Văn Lém (referred to as Captain Bay Lop) (died 1 February 1968 in Saigon) was a member of the Viet Cong who was summarily shot in Saigon during the Tet Offensive. The photograph of his death would become one of many anti-Vietnam War icons in the Western World.\n\nMany human rights organizations including Amnesty International along with the United Nations are campaigning against extrajudicial punishment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55762700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55762700", "title": "Global policeman", "text": "Global policeman\n\nGlobal policeman is an informal term for a state which seeks or claims global hegemony. It has been used, firstly, of the British Empire and, since 1945, of the United States, the most influential of the Four Policemen victorious in World War II.\n\nIn recent years there has been speculation that China may take over the role as it reaches out to protect shipping lanes, protect its overseas workers, and 'creeps into the superpower league'. The West, according to two columnists of the \"Financial Times\", 'should view this as an opportunity, not a threat.'\n\nNo formal recognition of this position exists. Theoretically, in international law, all nations are equal; 'par in parem non habet imperium', no authority between equals, is the principle applied. In reality, international law is decentralised, unpoliced, unenforceable, unclear and frequently broken. States are 'immortal' and cannot be indicted.\n\nWithin states, law restrains and limits power; between states, the opposite is true.\n\nThe Peelian principles of policing include: the duty to prevent crime, keep the peace and uphold the law, with the consent of the public, and with minimal use of force and restraint; to act impartially; and not to usurp the powers of the judiciary. The latter standard requires a presumption of innocence. Candidates for police recruitment and promotion are appointed on merit, whereas a 'global policeman' is self-appointed faute de mieux.\n\nWithin states, a monopoly on violence is the norm; the police may carry weapons, but few others do so (the US is an exception, prompting Charles Lane to ask if it is 'really a state') Internationally, a 'global policeman' is but one heavily armed state among two hundred others.\n\nTo confer the role of 'global policeman' on any self-interested, expansionary state implies a conflict of interest. States wage war with maximum force; engage in arms sales; form alliances and thus lack impartiality.\n\nThe comparatively peaceful years 1815–1914 came to be known as Pax Britannica. The UK made efforts to control the Slave trade through the West Africa Squadron In 1827, Britain, jointly with France and Russia, intervened on the side of Greek independence, destroying the Turkish fleet at the Battle of Navarino. In 1854, Britain, jointly with France, prevented Russia from destroying the Ottoman empire. Russia had to withdraw from Moldavia and Wallachia, and Sebastopol was besieged in the Crimean war.\n\nFrom 1914–1945 no one state was hegemonic. In an era of multipolarity and diffused responsibility, fascist dictators arose and Europe sank into two world wars. The authoritarian German challenge to democratic Britain then, is comparable to the authoritarian Chinese challenge to democratic America now, according to Richard J Evans.\n\nThe Truman Doctrine of 1947 promised assistance to anticommunist allies. 'The right of neutrality was abolished...it was an era of aggressive peacetime policy which marked the beginning of America's role as global policeman.' Since the end of the Cold War 'The enemy is terrorism not communism'. But after a disastrous intervention in Somalia in 1993, the US was reluctant to engage in humanitarian intervention in Bosnia and Rwanda.\n\nThe US-led Invasion of Iraq, officially a policing mission to find Weapons of Mass Destruction, has been accused of being an illegal cover for ulterior, unethical motives: the need to secure US regional bases, oil supplies, and the loyalty of key allies.\n\nSince then, serious doubts have been raised about the validity of US overseas intervention and destabilization in Iraq, Libya and Syria. Americans accept no law other than their own on US soil, yet expect other nations to submit to the rule of US troops; a double standard.\n\nThe use of drone strikes on terrorists in Pakistan and Afghanistan goes against the presumption of innocence. The CIA, exempt from the Geneva Convention, is 'secretly sentencing people to death for an unproven crime, without trial or inquest.' Al Qaeda is not a state, so 'war law' which permits killing of combatants, does not apply.\n\n"}
{"id": "295248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295248", "title": "Hypodermic needle model", "text": "Hypodermic needle model\n\nThe hypodermic needle model (known as the hypodermic-syringe model, transmission-belt model, or magic bullet theory) is a model of communication suggesting that an intended message is directly received and wholly accepted by the receiver. The model was originally rooted in 1930s behaviorism and largely considered obsolete for a long time, but big data analytics-based mass customization has led to a modern revival of the basic idea.\n\nThe \"magic bullet\" or \"hypodermic needle theory\" of direct influence effects was based on early observations of the effect of mass media, as used by Nazi propaganda and the effects of Hollywood in the 1930s and 1940s. People were assumed to be \"uniformly controlled by their biologically based 'instincts' and that they react more or less uniformly to whatever 'stimuli' came along\". The \"Magic Bullet\" theory graphically assumes that the media's message is a bullet fired from the \"media gun\" into the viewer's \"head\". Similarly, the \"Hypodermic Needle Model\" uses the same idea of the \"shooting\" paradigm. It suggests that the media injects its messages straight into the passive audience. This passive audience is immediately affected by these messages. The public essentially cannot escape from the media's influence, and is therefore considered a \"sitting duck\". Both models suggest that the public is vulnerable to the messages shot at them because of the limited communication tools and the studies of the media's effects on the masses at the time. It means the media explores information in such a way that it injects in the mind of audiences as bullets.\n\nThe \"magic bullet\" and \"hypodermic needle\" models originate from Harold Lasswell's 1927 book, \"Propaganda Technique in the World War\". Recent work in the history of communication studies have documented how the two models may have served as strawman theory or fallacy or even a \"myth\". Others have documented the possible medical origins of the metaphor of the magic bullet model.\n\nThe phrasing \"hypodermic needle\" is meant to give a mental image of the direct, strategic, and planned infusion of a message into an individual. But as research methodology became more highly developed, it became apparent that the media had selective influences on people.\n\nThe most famous incident often cited as an example for the hypodermic needle model was the 1938 broadcast of \"The War of the Worlds\" and the subsequent reaction of widespread panic among its American mass audience. However, this incident actually sparked the research movement, led by Paul Lazarsfeld and Herta Herzog, that would disprove the magic bullet or hypodermic needle theory, as Hadley Cantril managed to show that reactions to the broadcast were, in fact, diverse, and were largely determined by situational and attitudinal attributes of the listeners.\n\nIn the 1940s, Lazarsfeld disproved the \"magic bullet\" theory and \"hypodermic needle model theory\" through elections studies in \"The People's Choice\". Lazarsfeld and colleagues executed the study by gathering research during the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1940. The study was conducted to determine voting patterns and the relationship between the media and political power. Lazarsfeld discovered that the majority of the public remained unfazed by propaganda surrounding Roosevelt's campaign. Instead, interpersonal outlets proved more influential than the media. Therefore, Lazarsfeld concluded that the effects of the campaign were not all powerful to the point where they completely persuaded \"helpless audiences\", a claim that the Magic Bullet, Hypodermic Needle Model, and Lasswell asserted. These new findings also suggested that the public can select which messages affect and don't affect them.\n\nLazarsfeld's debunking of these models of communication provided the way for new ideas regarding the media's effects on the public. Lazarsfeld introduced the idea of the two-step flow of communication in 1944. Elihu Katz contributed to the model in 1955 through studies and publications. The model of the two-step flow of communication assumes that ideas flow from the mass media to opinion leaders and then to the greater public. They believed the message of the media to be transferred to the masses via this opinion leadership. Opinion leaders are categorized as individuals with the best understanding of media content and the most accessibility to the media as well. These leaders essentially take in the media's information, and explain and spread the media's messages to others.\n\nThus, the two step flow model and other communication theories suggest that the media does not directly have an influence on viewers anymore. Instead, interpersonal connections and even selective exposure play a larger role in influencing the public in the modern age.\n\nMore recently, the use of big data analytics to identify user preferences and to send tailor-made messages to individuals led back to the idea of a \"one-step flow of communication\", which is in principle similar to the hypodermic needle model. The difference is that today's massive databases allow for the mass customization of messages. So it is not one generic mass media message, but many individualized messages, coordinated by a massive algorithm. For example, empirical studies have found that in Twitter networks, traditional mass media outlets receive 80–90% of their Twitter mentions directly through a direct one-step flow from average Twitter users. However, these same studies also argue that there is a multitude of step-flow models at work in today's digital communication landscape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14507041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14507041", "title": "Index of politics articles", "text": "Index of politics articles\n\nThis is a list of political topics, including political science terms, political philosophies, political issues, etc.\n\nPolitics is the process by which groups of people make decisions. Although the term is generally applied to behavior within civil governments, politics is observed in all human group interactions, including corporate, academic, and religious institutions. Politics consists of \"social relations involving authority or power\" and refers to the regulation of a political unit, and to the methods and tactics used to formulate and apply policy. Political science (also known as political studies) is the study of political behavior and examines the acquisition and application of power. Related areas of study include political philosophy, which seeks a rationale for politics and an ethic of public behavior, and public administration, which examines the practices of governance.\n\nPolitical topics include:\n\n10 Agorot controversy -\n1965 Yerevan demonstrations - \n1984 network liberty alliance -\n2006 Franco–Italian–Spanish Middle East Peace Plan -\n2006 Georgian-Russian espionage controversy -\n2006 Norwegian Jostein Gaarder controversy -\n2006 United States immigration reform protests -\n2007 Georgia helicopter attack incident -\n2007 Georgia missile incident -\n2007 Georgia plane downing incident -\n\nA Man's A Man for A' That -\nA Quaker Action Group -\nA Scientific Support for Darwinism -\nAbalone Alliance -\nAbleism -\nAbortion -\nAbsentee ballot -\nAbsolute majority -\nAbsolute monarch -\nAbsolute monarchy -\nAbsolutism -\nAbstention -\nAcademia -\nAcceptance -\nAcclamation -\nActive measures -\nActivism -\nActivism at Ohio Wesleyan University -\nActivism industry -\nAdministrative Centre -\nAdministrative resource -\nAdolf Hitler -\nAdvocacy -\nAffair -\nAffinity group -\nAffirmative action -\nAffirmative action bake sale -\nAfrican Plate -\nAfrican socialism -\nAgrarianism -\nAgricultural policy -\nAlan Placa -\nAlexandre de Lameth -\nAlice's Meadow -\nAlliance for a New Humanity -\nAlois Buttinger -\nAlta controversy -\nAlternative Views -\nAmalgamation (history) -\nAmalgamation (politics) -\nAmerican Political Science Association -\nAmerican Political Science Review -\nAmericas -\nAmericentric -\nAmoral -\nAn Act of Conscience -\nAn equal amount of products for an equal amount of labor -\nAnarchism -\nAnarchism in China -\nAnarchist communism -\nAnarcho-capitalism -\nAnarcho-primitivism -\nAnarcho-syndicalism -\nAnatopia -\nAncien Régime -\nAncien régime -\nAncient Greece -\nAnimal rights -\nAnimal testing -\nAnnexation -\nAnthropology -\nAnti-Capitalist Convergence -\nAnti-Communism -\nAnti-nuclear movement -\nAnti-nuclear movement in Australia -\nAnti-nuclear movement in Germany -\nAnti-nuclear movement in the United States -\nAnti-Poverty Committee -\nAnti-Revisionist -\nAnti-Stalinist left -\nAnti-authoritarian -\nAnti-capitalism -\nAnti-clericalism -\nAnti-communism -\nAnti-cult movement -\nAnti-environmentalism -\nAnti-incumbency -\nAnti-nationalism -\nAnti-work -\nAntidisestablishmentarianism -\nAntimilitarism -\nAntinaturalism (politics) -\nAntoine Barnave -\nApolitical -\nAptitude -\nArab socialism -\nArbetarnas bildningsförbund -\nArbeter Ring (Workmen's Circle) -\nArctic Refuge drilling controversy -\nArendt, Hannah -\nAristocracy -\nAristotelianism -\nAristotle -\nArizona State University -\nArm's length principle -\nArms Length Management Organisation -\nArrow Cross Party -\nArthashastra -\nArtists United Against Apartheid -\nArtivist -\nAsian values -\nAssembly of the Poor -\nAsset-based egalitarianism -\nAtrocity story -\nAttack poodle -\nAudre Lorde Project -\nAugustine of Hippo -\nAugustus -\nAusserparlamentarische Opposition -\nAustralasia -\nAustralia -\nAustria -\nAutarchism -\nAuthoritarian -\nAuthoritarianism -\nAuthority -\nAutism Awareness Campaign UK -\nAutism Society of America -\nAutism Speaks -\nAutonomous area -\nAverage worker's wage -\nAverroes -\nAviation ministry -\nAvicenna -\nAxis of Justice\n\nBCE -\nBabels -\nBabeuf -\nBalanced job complex -\nBallot -\nBallot access -\nBallot box -\nBallot stuffing -\nBarbara Kay controversy -\nBavaria -\nBavarian Soviet Republic -\nBehavioralism -\nBeirut-Damascus Declaration -\nBelgian Labour Party -\nBellum omnium contra omnes -\nBenito Mussolini -\nBerne International -\nBible -\nBicameralism -\nBiosecurity protocol -\nBipartisanship -\nBirth -\nBlack Front -\nBlack Panther Party -\nBlack populism -\nBlack supremacy -\nBoard of Control (municipal government) -\nBob Dornan -\nBody politic -\nBolivarian Revolution -\nBolshevik -\nBourgeoisie -\nBrahmana -\nBrandeis University -\nBrights movement -\nBritish politics -\nBrown Berets (Watsonville) -\nBuddhism -\nBuddhist socialism -\nBureau-shaping model -\nBureaucracy -\nBureaucrat -\nBureaucratic drift - \nBurmese Way to Socialism -\nButskelism -\nBy-election\n\nCabotage -\nCacerolazo -\nCaging list -\nCalculus of voting -\nCalifornians Aware -\nCall For Action -\nCamp Trans -\nCamp for Climate Action -\nCampaign for Innocent Victims in Conflict -\nCanal Contemporâneo -\nCandidate -\nCapital -\nCapital punishment -\nCapitalism -\nCarinthian plebiscite, 1920 -\nCarneiro's circumscription theory -\nCarnival Against Capital -\nCarthaginian peace -\nCartographic aggression -\nCatholic -\nCeline's laws -\nCensorship -\nCenter for American Politics and Citizenship -\nCenter for Biological Diversity -\nCenter for Freedom and Prosperity -\nCenter for Science in the Public Interest -\nCenter for the Evaluation of Risks to Human Reproduction -\nCentral Military Commission -\nCentrist -\nChambers of parliament -\nChampagne socialist -\nChanakya -\nChandragupta Maurya -\nChappaquiddick incident -\nCharismatic authority -\nCherokee freedmen controversy -\nChild advocacy -\nChina watcher -\nChinaman (politics) -\nChinese people -\nChristian -\nChristian democracy -\nChristian Institute -\nChristian democracy -\nChristian existentialism -\nChristian socialism -\nChristianity -\nThe Chronicle of Higher Education -\nChuch'e -\nChurch and state -\nCicero -\nCitizen and consumer movements in Japan -\nCitizens' jury -\nCitizenship -\nCity-state -\nCivil authority -\nCivil libertarianism -\nCivil liberties -\nCivil registry -\nCivil service -\nCivil society -\nCivil society campaign -\nCivilian control of the military -\nCivilized -\nClandestine Insurgent Rebel Clown Army -\nClare Boothe Luce Policy Institute -\nClass conflict -\nClass struggle -\nClassical liberalism -\nClassless society -\nClean Clothes Campaign -\nCleavage (politics) -\nClergy Letter Project -\nClone (voting) -\nCo-option -\nCoalition for Comprehensive Immigration Reform -\nCoercion -\nColby College -\nCold War -\nCollective action -\nCollective responsibility -\nCollectivism -\nCollege of William & Mary -\nColonialism -\nCommand and Control (government) -\nCommercial Club of Chicago -\nCommittee -\nCommittee of 100 (Delaware) -\nCommon Purpose UK -\nCommon minimum programme -\nCommonwealth of World Citizens -\nCommunalism -\nCommune (socialism) -\nCommunism -\nCommunist -\nCommunitarianism -\nCommunities Organized for Public Service -\nCommunity Front in Defense of Land -\nCommunity organizing -\nCommunization -\nCompact theory -\nComparative government -\nComparative politics -\nCompetitiveness Policy Council -\nCompulsory purchase order -\nCompulsory voting -\nConcession (politics) -\nConcord Principles -\nConcurrent majority -\nCondominium (international law) -\nConference of Socialist Economists -\nConfidence and supply -\nConfucius -\nCongress -\nCongress of Vienna -\nCongressional Order of Merit -\nConscription -\nConsent of the governed -\nConservatism -\nConservatism in Colombia -\nConservatism in the United States -\nConsistent life ethic -\nConspiracy (political) -\nConstituency -\nConstituent country -\nConstituent state -\nConstitutional convention (political meeting) -\nConstitutional crisis -\nConstitutional dictatorship -\nConstitutional patriotism -\nConstitutionalism -\nConsul general -\nConsumer organization -\nConsumers' Association -\nConsumers' Research -\nContact Group (Balkans) -\nContempt of Parliament -\nContentious politics -\nContinental Europe -\nControversies related to Islam and Muslims -\nCoordination failure -\nCordón Industrial -\nCornelius Castoriadis -\nCornell College -\nCornell University -\nCorporate Europe Observatory -\nCorporate nationalism -\nCorporate oligarchy -\nCorporate welfare -\nCorporation -\nCorrective Revolution -\nCosmopolitanism -\nCouncil on American–Islamic Relations -\nCounter-recruitment -\nCounter-terrorism -\nCountyWatch -\nCounty executive -\nCourtesy resolution -\nCraftivism -\nCrisis management -\nCritical international relations theory -\nCriticism of debt -\nCriticisms of electoralism -\nCriticisms of socialism -\nCritique of capitalism -\nCross-cultural studies -\nCult of personality -\nCultural hegemony -\nCulture -\nCulture jamming -\nCurvilinear disparity -\nCustom online panel -\nCyberpolitics -\n\nDIY culture -\nDaniel Mark Siegel -\nDaniel Patrick Moynihan -\nDartmouth College -\nDe Maistre -\nDeanie Frazier -\nDebate -\nDebeaking -\nDeclarationism -\nDeclassification -\nDeduction -\nDefective by Design -\nDefinitional concerns in anarchist theory -\nDelegate model of representation -\nDelegated voting -\nDelegation -\nDeliberative democracy -\nDemand management -\nDemarchy -\nDemocracy -\nDemocracy Day (United States) - \nDemocracy building -\nDemocracy in Marxism -\nDemocracy in the Middle East -\nDemocratic Socialist Organizing Committee -\nDemocratic Socialists of America -\nDemocratic World Federalists -\nDemocratic empire -\nDemocratic peace theory -\nDemocratic socialism -\nDemocratic structuring -\nDemocratic transhumanism -\nDemonstration (people) -\nDemos (U.S. think tank) -\nDemzilla -\nDenialism -\nDependent territory -\nDeposition (politics) -\nDesignated Suppliers Program -\nDetournement -\nDialectic -\nDiaspora politics -\nDichotomy -\nDigital era governance -\nDigital object identifier -\nDiplomacy -\nDirect Action and Democracy Today -\nDirect action -\nDirect democracy -\nDirect rule over Northern Ireland -\nDisability Determination Services -\nDisarm bush -\nDisarmament -\nDissent! (network) -\nDistributism -\nDivided regions -\nDivine Right of Kings -\nDominant-party system -\nDonald Trump -\nDownhill Battle -\nDownsize DC Foundation -\nDrug policy -\nDrug policy reform -\nDual loyalty -\nDual mandate -\nDual power -\nDuumviracy -\nDyke March -\nDykes on Bikes -\n\nE. J. Josey -\nEarly voting -\nEarthlings (documentary) -\nEast Gosforth -\nEco-Communalism -\nEco-socialism -\nEcodefense -\nEconomic activism -\nEconomic calculation problem -\nEconomic interventionism -\nEconomic liberalism -\nEconomics -\nEconomy -\nEcotage -\nE-Democracy -\nEdmund Burke -\nEducation -\nEducation Action Group -\nEducation Otherwise -\nEducation policy -\nEducation reform -\nEgalitarianism -\nEgalitarianism as a Revolt Against Nature and Other Essays -\nEgyptian Socialist Youth Organization -\nElection -\nElection (1999 film) -\nElection Day (United Kingdom) -\nElection Day Registration -\nElection judge -\nElection law -\nElection management body -\nElection monitoring -\nElection surprise -\nElections -\nElector -\nElectoral Reform Society -\nElectoral calendar 2009 -\nElectoral college -\nElectoral fusion -\nElectoral geography -\nElectoral power -\nElectoral reform -\nElectoralism -\nElectorate -\nElectronic civil disobedience -\nElectronic politics -\nElitism -\nElitist -\nEmergent democracy -\nEmpirical -\nEmpiricism -\nEmployment -\nEnabling act -\nEnclave and exclave -\nEnergy security -\nEngland -\nEnvironmentalism -\nEpistemology -\nEquality before the law -\nEquality of opportunity -\nEquality of outcome -\nEric Hoffer -\nEskalera Karakola -\nEthical challenges to autism treatment -\nEthics -\nEthnic nationalism -\nEthnopluralism -\nEtoy -\nEuripides -\nEurope -\nEuropeans of the Year -\nExclusive mandate -\nExecutive (government) -\nExecutive branch -\nExecutive order (United States) -\nExecutive power -\nExit poll -\nExpansionism -\nExpansionist Nationalism -\n\nFactual association -\nFahrenheit 9/11 controversy -\nFamily -\nFanorama -\nFantasy Congress -\nFarband -\nFarley File -\nFasci Siciliani -\nFascio -\nFascism -\nFascism as an international phenomenon -\nFascist -\nFather of the House -\nFavourite -\nFederal Returning Officer -\nFederalism -\nFeminism -\nFerdowsi -\nFernand Brouez -\nFeuillant -\nFifth power -\nFireHollywood -\nFiscal conservatism -\nFive-point electoral law -\nFixed-term election -\nFoco -\nFolkhemmet -\nFood politics -\nForeign policy -\nForeign policy analysis -\nFrance -\nFranchise activism -\nFree Software Foundation -\nFree market -\nFree migration -\nFree the Old Head of Kinsale -\nFreedom (political) -\nFreedom Center Western Massachusetts -\nFreedom of speech -\nFreedom of the press -\nFrench Constitution of 1793 -\nFrench Constitution of 1795 -\nFrench Directory -\nFrench Fifth Republic -\nFrench Revolution -\nFrench Senate -\nFront-runner -\nFu Xiancai -\nFudgie Frottage -\nFull slate -\nFunctionalism in international relations -\nFunky Dragon -\n\nG. William Domhoff -\nGalicianism (Galicia) -\nGame theory -\nGandhian economics -\nGastald -\nGaullism -\nGay marriage -\nGay rights -\nGeneral election -\nGeneralissimo -\nGeneration Engage or GenerationEngage -\nGeopolitics -\nGeorge Allen (U.S. politician) -\nGeorge Lakoff -\nGeorgetown University -\nGerard Toal -\nGerman student movement -\nGermanophile -\nGirondins -\nGirondist -\nGlenn W. Smith -\nGlobal Environment and Trade Study -\nGlobal Justice (organization) -\nGlobal Justice Movement -\nGlobal citizens movement -\nGlobal politics -\nGlobal power barometer -\nGlobalism -\nGlobalization -\nGlossary of the French Revolution -\nGodless Americans March on Washington -\nGolden Liberty -\nGoodhart's law -\nGoulash Communism -\nGovernance -\nGovernment -\nGovernment-organized demonstration -\nGovernment Gazette of South Africa -\nGovernment in exile -\nGovernment procurement -\nGovernment simulation game -\nGrapus -\nGrassroots Radio Coalition -\nGreat American Boycott -\nGreat Britain -\nGreat power -\nGreen anarchism -\nGreen lending -\nGreen liberalism -\nGreen politics -\nGreen syndicalism -\nGreenpeace -\nGuardian of Zion Award -\nGuevarism -\nGuided Democracy -\nGun control -\nGun rights -\n\nHacktivism -\nHacktivismo -\nHacktivist News Service -\nHaldane principle -\nHandover -\nHannah Arendt -\nHaringey Solidarity Group -\nHarvard University -\nHasbara -\nHaymarket Books -\nHe who does not work, neither shall he eat -\nHead of state succession -\nHeads of state -\nHealth care politics -\nHealth care reform -\nHealth department -\nHegemonic stability theory -\nHendrix College -\nHerbert Baxter Adams -\nHereditary Education Policy -\nHerzl Award -\nHesiod -\nHierarchical organization -\nHigh politics -\nHillary Rodham cattle futures controversy -\nHindi-Urdu controversy -\nHindmarsh Island bridge controversy -\nHindu nationalism -\nHindutva -\nHistorical institutionalism -\nHistory -\nHistory of India -\nHistory of democracy -\nHistory of fundamentalist Islam in Iran -\nHistory of political science -\nHistory of socialism -\nHistory of terrorism -\nHobbes -\nHome Nations -\nHomer -\nHouseholder Franchise -\nHudson Guild -\nHuman chain -\nHuman geography -\nHuman settlement -\nHuman shield -\nHuman shield action to Iraq -\nHung parliament -\nHunt Saboteurs Association -\nHusting -\nHypatus -\n\nIcarus Project -\nIdealism in international relations -\nIdeologies of parties -\nIdeology -\nIdentity politics -\nIlısu Dam Campaign -\nImanol Ordorika Sacristán -\nImmigration policy -\nImmigration reduction -\nImmigration reform -\nIn His Steps -\nInclusive Democracy -\nIncome redistribution -\nIndependence -\nIndependence referendum -\nIndependent Australian Jewish Voices -\nIndependent Media Center -\nIndia -\nIndirect election -\nIndividualist anarchism -\nIndophile -\nIndustrialisation -\nIndybay -\nInfighting -\nInformation science -\nInge Scholl -\nInitiative -\nInnovation -\nInstitute for Global Communications -\nInstitute for Humane Studies -\nInstitutional analysis -\nIntegral Nationalism -\nIntegral humanism -\nInter-Parliamentary Union -\nInterest aggregation -\nInterest articulation -\nIntergovernmental -\nInternal security -\nInternational -\nInternational Action -\nInternational Action Center -\nInternational Falcon Movement -\nInternational Foundation for Electoral Systems\nInternational Socialist Organization -\nInternational Solidarity Movement -\nInternational Working Union of Socialist Parties -\nInternational law -\nInternational relations -\nInternational relations theory -\nInternational trade -\nInternationalism (politics) -\nInternet censorship -\nInternet taxation -\nIntersectionality -\nInvisible Party -\nIon Sancho (politician) -\nIraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America -\nIrish Socialist Network -\nIslamic -\nIslamic Thinkers Society -\nIslamic state -\nIslamism -\nIsland country -\nIsolationism -\nIsraeli–Palestinian conflict -\nItaly -\n\nJamahiriya -\nJames E. Hansen -\nJamil Hussein controversy -\nJan Wong controversy -\nJapanese Imperial succession controversy -\nJean-Jacques Rousseau -\nJean Schmidt -\nJeffersonian political philosophy -\nJerusalem Center for Public Affairs -\nJesus Ledesma Aguilar -\nJewish Socialists' Group -\nJohn Carver (board policy) -\nJohn Locke -\nJohn Mordaunt Trust -\nJohn Rawls -\nJohn Stuart Mill -\nJohns Hopkins University -\nJoint electorate -\nJoint session -\nJoseph Stalin -\nJuche -\nJudicial -\nJudicial activism -\nJudicial branch -\nJudicial power -\nJudicial tyranny -\nJudiciary -\nJulius Caesar -\nJunge Wilde -\nJunta (Habsburg) -\nJunta (Peninsular War) -\nJura federation -\nJurisdiction -\nJustice at Stake Campaign -\n\nKarl Marx -\nKarl Popper -\nKeep Ireland Open -\nKeynesian economics -\nKingdom of Sardinia -\nKingmaker -\nKlemens von Metternich -\nKorean Immigrant Workers Advocates -\nKremlinology -\n\nLa Reunion (Dallas) -\nLabor Zionism -\nLabour Party (UK) -\nLabour law -\nLabour movement -\nLabour voucher -\nLaissez-faire -\nLaissez-faire capitalism -\nLaissez faire -\nLake Ontario Waterkeeper -\nLand and liberty (slogan) -\nLand reform -\nLandmine Survivors Network -\nLandslide victory -\nLange Model -\nLanguage policy -\nLaw -\nLaw and order (politics) -\nLaw collective -\nLaw making -\nLawrence O'Brien Award -\nLeaderless resistance -\nLeague (politics) -\nLeague of Coloured Peoples -\nLeft-Right politics -\nLeft-right politics -\nLeft-wing -\nLeft-wing fascism -\nLeft-wing politics -\nLeft wing -\nLegal domination -\nLegal research -\nLegal system -\nLegislative -\nLegislative Assembly (France) -\nLegislative branch -\nLegislative power -\nLegislative veto -\nLegislative violence -\nLegislature -\nLegitimating ideology -\nLenin -\nLes Dégonflés -\nLeviathan -\nLeviathan (book) -\nLiberal -\nLiberal democracy -\nLiberalism -\nLiberalism in Colombia -\nLiberalism in the United States -\nLiberals -\nLiberation theology -\nLibertarian Marxism -\nLibertarian Party of Michigan -\nLibertarian Socialism -\nLibertarian socialism -\nLibertarianism -\nLibertarians -\nLiberty -\nLiberty Tree Foundation for the Democratic Revolution -\nLine-item veto -\nLinestanding -\nLinguistics -\nLiquid democracy -\nLishenets -\nList of political scientists -\nLiverpool Social Forum -\nLivy -\nLocal Works -\nLocal administrative unit -\nLocal government -\nLocal self-government -\nLocalism -\nLocalism (politics) -\nLondon School of Economics -\nLouis XVIII of France -\nLuck egalitarianism -\nLuxemburgism -\n\nMVDDS dispute -\nMachiavellian -\nMachiavellianism -\nMacmillan Publishers -\nMaimonides -\nMaine Video Activists Network -\nMajoritarianism -\nMajority -\nMalicious compliance -\nManagement -\nMandate (politics) -\nMao Zedong -\nMaoism -\nMargaret Thatcher -\nMarginal seat -\nMarijuana Policy Project -\nMarket populism -\nMarket socialism -\nMarriage gap -\nMarxism -\nMarxism-Leninism -\nMarxist international relations theory -\nMarxist philosophy -\nMarxist revisionism -\nMass mobilization -\nMass politics -\nMassachusetts Institute of Technology -\nMaternity Coalition -\nMatriarchy -\nMaurya Empire -\nMax Weber -\nMaximilien Robespierre -\nMay Conspiracy -\nMay Day -\nMayday Mutual Aid Medical Station -\nMeans of production -\nMedia activism -\nMediastrike -\nMedical marijuana -\nMelanesia -\nMelanesian socialism -\nMercantilism -\nMerchants Club -\nMetapolitics -\nMetropolitan municipality -\nMiami model -\nMicronesia -\nMid-City Community Advocacy Network (Mid-City CAN) -\nMiddle Ages -\nMierscheid Law -\nMike Lesser -\nMilitant -\nMilitarism -\nMilitary geography -\nMinarchism -\nMinimal effects hypothesis -\nMinimum wage -\nMinistry (collective executive) -\nMinistry (government department) -\nMinoritarianism -\nMinorities -\nMiscegenation -\nMission-based organization -\nMobutism -\nMock election -\nModern American liberalism -\nMonarchism -\nMonarchy -\nMonash University -\nMoney bill -\nMonkeywrenching -ة\nMontebello High School flag flipping incident, 2006 -\nMoral Politics -\nMoral high ground -\nMoral philosophy -\nMorality -\nMotion of no confidence -\nMotyl's Theory of the Empire -\nMount Holyoke College -\nMoveOn.org ad controversy -\nMovement for a New Society -\nMulti-party system -\nMulticulturalism -\nMunicipal corporation -\nMunicipal services -\nMusic and politics -\nMuslim Association of Britain -\nMuslim Public Affairs Committee UK -\nMuslim Public Affairs Council -\nMāori protest movement -\n\nNATO expansion -\nNLRB election procedures -\nNY Salon -\nName recognition -\nNancy Program -\nNapoleon Bonaparte -\nNasserism -\nNation -\nNation-state -\nNational Action Party (Mexico) -\nNational Alliance on Mental Illness -\nNational American Woman Suffrage Association -\nNational Assembly -\nNational Assembly of France -\nNational Association of Old IRA -\nNational Association of Railroad Passengers -\nNational Association of Secretaries of State -\nNational Bolshevism -\nNational Breast Cancer Awareness Month -\nNational Civic League -\nNational Convention -\nNational Italian American Foundation -\nNational Korean American Service & Education Consortium -\nNational League of Cities -\nNational Maternity Action Plan -\nNational Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws -\nNational Priority Projects -\nNational Security Whistleblowers Coalition -\nNational Socialist Program -\nNational Vaccine Information Center -\nNational Youth Rights Association -\nNational heritage area -\nNational language -\nNational socialism -\nNationalism -\nNationalist activism -\nNatural rights -\nNature versus nurture -\nNazi -\nNazism -\nNeo-Gramscianism -\nNeo-Zionism -\nNeo-medievalism -\nNeo-populism -\nNeoconservatism -\nNeoliberalism -\nNeoliberalism (international relations) -\nNeomercantilism -\nNeosocialism -\nNetherlands -\nNetroots -\nNevada Desert Experience -\nNew Democracy -\nNew Jersey Redistricting Commission -\nNew Left -\nNew Politics (magazine) -\nNew Revolutionary Alternative -\nNew York University -\nNewt Gingrich -\nNext Welsh devolution referendum -\nNiccolò Machiavelli -\nNo-cost campaign -\nNo Border network -\nNoam Chomsky -\nNolan Chart -\nNolan chart -\nNominating committee -\nNomination rules - \nNon-governmental organizations -\nNon-human electoral candidates -\nNon-intervention -\nNon-partisan democracy -\nNonproliferation -\nNonviolence -\nNonviolence International -\nNorberto Bobbio -\nNorm Peterson (Australian politician) -\nNormative -\nNorth America -\nNortheast Action -\nNorthern Arizona University -\nNothing About Us Without Us -\nNothing But Nets -\nNuclear-Free Future Award -\nNuclear testing -\n\nObjectivism and libertarianism -\nOccidental College -\nOccupation (protest) -\nOchlocracy -\nOffice politics -\nOfficial language -\nOld right -\nOligarchy -\nOmaha Platform -\nOn Liberty -\nOne People's Project -\nOpen campaign -\nOpen government -\nOpen politics -\nOpposition (politics) -\nOpposition to immigration -\nOrange Revolution\nOriginalism -\nOsman Ahmed Osman -\nOstracism -\nOuter Continental Shelf -\nOuting -\nOutlying territory -\n\nPDF -\nPIANZEA -\nPacific Environment -\nPacifism -\nPale -\nPaleoconservatism -\nPaleolibertarianism -\nPalestine Media Watch -\nPali Canon -\nParachute candidate -\nParadox of voting -\nParent-teacher association -\nParents and citizens -\nParity of esteem -\nParliamentary informatics -\nParliamentary session -\nParochialism -\nParticipatory economics -\nParticipatory politics -\nPartition (politics) -\nPartners in Population and Development -\nPartnership for a Drug-Free America -\nParty-line vote -\nParty platform -\nParty political broadcast -\nParty system -\nPassive obedience -\nPatriarchy -\nPatriotism -\nPeace and conflict studies -\nPeace studies -\nPeace walk -\nPeacefire -\nPeople's Justice Party (UK) -\nPeople & Planet -\nPeronism -\nPete Stark -\nPeter F. Paul -\nPeterloo Massacre -\nPetticoat affair -\nPharaonism -\nPharisees -\nPharmFree -\nPhilosopher -\nPhilosophical anarchism -\nPhilosophy -\nPhilosophy, Politics, and Economics -\nPi Sigma Alpha -\nPieing -\nPlato -\nPlumi -\nPlutarch -\nPochvennichestvo -\nPolicy -\nPolicy analysis -\nPolicy by press release -\nPolicy studies -\nPolish American Congress -\nPolish American Congress of Eastern Massachusetts -\nPolitical Campaigning -\nPolitical Film Society -\nPolitical Management -\nPolitical activism -\nPolitical agenda -\nPolitical authorities -\nPolitical behavior -\nPolitical campaign -\nPolitical campaign staff -\nPolitical capital -\nPolitical communications -\nPolitical compass -\nPolitical corruption -\nPolitical crime -\nPolitical criticism -\nPolitical culture -\nPolitical decoy -\nPolitical dissent -\nPolitical economy -\nPolitical entrepreneur -\nPolitical faction -\nPolitical game -\nPolitical geography -\nPolitical history -\nPolitical institution -\nPolitical labels -\nPolitical libel -\nPolitical literacy -\nPolitical media -\nPolitical movement -\nPolitical participation -\nPolitical parties -\nPolitical parties of the world -\nPolitical party -\nPolitical philosophy -\nPolitical power -\nPolitical psychology -\nPolitical rights -\nPolitical science -\nPolitical science of religion -\nPolitical scientist -\nPolitical simulation -\nPolitical socialization -\nPolitical sociology -\nPolitical spectacle -\nPolitical spectrum -\nPolitical statement -\nPolitical symbolism -\nPolitical system -\nPolitical systems -\nPolitical t-shirt -\nPolitical theatre -\nPolitical theology -\nPolitical theory -\nPolitically exposed person -\nPolitician -\nPoliticization of science -\nPolitico -\nPolitico-media complex -\nPolitics -\nPolitics (Aristotle) -\nPolitics (disambiguation) -\nPolitics by country -\nPolitics by subdivision -\nPolitics in fiction -\nPolity -\nPolling station -\nPollster -\nPolybius -\nPolynesia -\nPopular socialism -\nPopularism -\nPopulism -\nPorkbusters -\nPositive (social sciences) -\nPositive political theory -\nPost-democracy -\nPost-modern -\nPost-structuralist -\nPost-war consensus -\nPostal voting -\nPostmodern -\npower broker -\nPower in international relations -\nPower transition theory -\nPower vacuum -\nPrague Party Conference -\nPre-Marx socialists -\nPrebendalism -\nPresident's Council on Service and Civic Participation -\nPresident-elect -\nPresidential succession -\nPrime Minister -\nPrinceton Project 55 -\nPrinceton University -\nPrincipate -\nPrivate defense agency -\nPrivate property -\nPrivatization -\nPro-life -\nPro-war -\nPro forma -\nProbing amendment -\nProductive forces -\nProgg -\nProgress For America -\nProgressive Era -\nProgressivism -\nProject Camelot -\nProject Cybersyn -\nProletarian internationalism -\nProletarian revolution -\nProletariat -\nPrometheus Radio Project -\nPromoting adversaries -\nPronunciamiento -\nProperty rights -\nProtest -\nProtest vote -\nProvisional ballot -\nProxy voting -\nPrussia -\nPsephology -\nPseudo-secularism -\nPsychogeography -\nPsychology -\nPublic Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness Response Act -\nPublic administration -\nPublic benefit corporation -\nPublic law -\nPublic management -\nPublic opinion -\nPublic participation -\nPublic policy -\nPublic property -\nPublic sector -\nPublic trust -\nPublic value -\nPublics -\nPublixtheatre Caravan -\nPunk ideologies -\nPure race -\nPurple Rain Protest -\n\nQueeruption -\nQuick count -\nQuota Borda system -\n\nR. Doug Lewis -\nRISE International -\nRace relations -\nRacial segregation -\nRacist -\nRadical Youth (Aotearoa New Zealand) -\nRadical cheerleading -\nRadical democracy -\nRadicalism (historical) -\nRadicalization -\nRadium Girls -\nRainbow/PUSH -\nReactionary -\nRealigning election -\nRealism in international relations -\nRecall election -\nRed-baiting -\nRed Falcons -\nRed Guard Party (United States) -\nRed flag (politics) -\nRed inverted triangle -\nRedbud Woods controversy -\nRedistribution of wealth -\nReferendum -\nReflections on the Revolution in France -\nReformism -\nRefusal to serve in the Israeli military -\nRefuse and Resist -\nRefused ballot -\nRegenesis Movement -\nRegime -\nRegional autonomy -\nRegional hegemony -\nRegional state -\nRegionalism -\nReligion -\nReligious Coalition for Reproductive Choice -\nReligious socialism -\nRenaissance -\nRent strike -\nRepresentative democracy -\nRepublic of China -\nRepublican In Name Only -\nRepublican Party (United States) -\nRepublicanism -\nReserved political positions -\nReturning Officer -\nReverb (non-profit) -\nReverse discrimination -\nRevisionist Zionism -\nRevolution -\nRevolution from above -\nRevolutionary Knitting Circle -\nRevolutionary movement -\nRevolutionary socialism -\nRevolutions of 1848 -\nRhythms of resistance -\nRichard Carmona -\nRichard L. Hasen -\nRig-Veda -\nRight-wing -\nRight-wing politics -\nRight of conquest -\nRight of foreigners to vote -\nRight socialism -\nRight wing -\nRights -\nRights and responsibilities of marriages in the United States -\nRise of nationalism in Europe -\nRitaExpress -\nRobert Dahl -\nRobert F. Thompson -\nRobert Filmer -\nRobert Stewart, Viscount Castlereagh -\nRoemer Model of Political Competition -\nRoman Empire -\nRoman Republic -\nRonald Reagan -\nRoosevelt Institution -\nRoot Force -\nRoots of Resistance -\nRosenberg Fund for Children -\nRotvoll controversy -\nRoyal Commission -\nRoyal Commissions Act 1902 -\nRubaiyat of Omar Khayyam -\nRudy Giuliani promotions of Bernard Kerik -\nRuling clique -\nRump organization -\nRussian Procurement -\nRussian Revolution of 1917 -\n\nSabotage -\nSadducees -\nSafe seat -\nSafer Alternative for Enjoyable Recreation -\nSamhita -\nSamuel Gompers -\nSangonet -\nSantorum controversy -\nSatiric misspelling -\nSchool of the Americas Watch -\nScience, Technology, & International Affairs -\nScience for the People -\nScience policy -\nScientific Socialism -\nScottish Politician of the Year -\nSeat of government -\nSeaweed rebellion -\nSecret ballot -\nSection 28 -\nSectionalism -\nSecularism -\nSecurity and Peace -\nSelf-determination -\nSenate Document -\nSeparate electorate -\nSeparation of church and state -\nSeparation of powers -\nSeparatism -\nSettler colonialism -\nSexual Freedom League -\nShadow Cabinet -\nShadow Minister -\nSignoria of Florence -\nSimple majority -\nSingle-issue politics -\nOne-party state -\nSinistrisme -\nSister Boom-Boom -\nSister Roma -\nSitdown strike -\nSituational ethics -\nSkinheads Against Racial Prejudice -\nSlacktivism -\nSlavophile -\nSmall-l libertarianism -\nSmith College -\nSocial-imperialism -\nSocial Credit -\nSocial Solidarity -\nSocial class -\nSocial contract -\nSocial democracy -\nSocial democratic -\nSocial democrats -\nSocial fascism -\nSocial liberalism -\nSocial philosophy -\nSocial policy -\nSocial psychology -\nSocial science -\nSocial sciences -\nSocial sector -\nSocial welfare provision -\nSocialism -\nSocialism (book) -\nSocialism and LGBT rights -\nSocialism and social democracy in Canada -\nSocialism of the 21st century -\nSocialist Action (disambiguation) -\nSocialist Legality -\nSocialist Register -\nSocialist Resistance -\nSocialist Review (US) -\nSocialist Studies (1981) -\nSocialist Worker (Aotearoa) -\nSocialist competition -\nSocialist economics -\nSocialist feminism -\nSocialist law -\nSocialist realism -\nSocialist state -\nSociety -\nSociology -\nSoft despotism -\nSoft paternalism -\nSokwanele -\nSomaly Mam Foundation -\nSongun -\nSortition -\nSound truck -\nSouth America -\nSouth End Press -\nSoutheast Asian Leaders -\nSouthern Agrarians -\nSouthwest Asia -\nSovereign -\nSovereign state -\nSovereignty -\nSoviet (council) -\nSoviet Union -\nSoviet democracy -\nSoviet republic (system of government) -\nSpace policy -\nSpanish Constitution of 1812 -\nSpeaker of the Senate -\nSpokescouncil -\nSt. Petersburg Democratic Club (United States) -\nStalinism -\nStand Up Speak Up -\nStarve the beast -\nState (polity) -\nState Electoral Office -\nState of emergency -\nState of nature -\nState socialism -\nStateless nation -\nStatistics -\nStatoid -\nStem cell -\nStem cell controversy -\nStephanie Cutter -\nSteven Lukes -\nStrategic Urban Planning -\nStrategic geography -\nStrategic planning -\nStreet-level bureaucracy -\nStreet protester -\nStrength through Peace -\nStudent Activity Fee -\nStudent Global AIDS Campaign -\nStudent activism -\nStudent voice -\nStudents Partnership Worldwide -\nStudents for Justice in Palestine -\nStump speech (politics) -\nSubstantive representation -\nSuffrage -\nSultanism -\nSummer capital -\nSupermajority -\nSuperpower -\nSupranational -\nSupranational aspects of international organizations -\nSupremacism -\nSurveillance state -\nSurvivors of the Valdez Oil Spill -\nSusan Bernecker -\nSustainable procurement -\nSwing vote -\nSwingometer -\nSyncretic politics -\nSynonyms -\nSystematic ideology -\nSystems theory in political science -\n\nTV turnoff -\nTactical media -\nTactical politics -\nTaistoism -\nTaiwan -\nTake Pride in America -\nTakshashila University -\nTalk About Curing Autism -\nTax Justice Network -\nTax increment financing -\nTax reform -\nTechnology and society -\nTemporary capital -\nTenant-in-chief -\nTerritory (country subdivision) -\nTerrorism -\nTetracameralism -\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment -\nThe Analects of Confucius -\nThe Communist Manifesto -\nThe Denver Principles -\nThe Internationale -\nThe Lawless State -\nThe Legislative Assembly and the fall of the French monarchy -\nThe Lysistrata Project (protest) -\nThe Masque of Anarchy -\nThe Mischief Makers -\nThe Mountain -\nThe People Speak -\nThe Prince -\nThe Ragged Trousered Philanthropists -\nThe Republic -\nThe Social Contract -\nThe Soul of Man under Socialism -\nThe Triple Revolution -\nThe Two Souls of Socialism -\n\nTheocracy -\nTheology -\nTheories of Political Behavior -\nTheories of political behavior -\nTheories of state -\nThermidorian Reaction -\nThessaloniki bombings of 1903 -\nThink tank -\nThird-worldism -\nThomas Boddington -\nThomas Hobbes -\nThomas Sowell -\nThree-cornered-contest -\nThreeBallot -\nThree Principles of the People -\nThree powers of the State -\nThucydides -\nTicket (election) -\nTicket splitters -\nTimarchy -\nTimeline of women's rights (other than voting) -\nTimeline of women's suffrage -\nTo the Finland Station -\nTory Socialism -\nTotalitarian -\nTotalitarianism -\nTownsite -\nTrade facilitation -\nTraditional domination -\nTraffic light coalition -\nTransitology -\nTransparency (humanities) -\nTransparency International -\nTranspartisan -\nTreatment Advocacy Center -\nTree pinning -\nTree sitting -\nTree spiking -\nTrent Lott -\nTrial (law) -\nTricameralism -\nTripartite classification of authority -\nTriple oppression -\nTriumphalism -\nTully Satre -\nTurkey -\nTurkey Youth Union -\nTurn Your Back on Bush -\nTurner Controversy -\nTwilight Club -\nTwo-party system -\nTwo Treatises of Government -\nTypes of socialism -\nTyranny -\nTyrant -\n\nU.S. Committee for Human Rights in North Korea -\nUK Social Centre Network -\nUkraine without Kuchma -\nUnaffiliated voter -\nUnderground Literary Alliance -\nUnicameralism -\nUnilateral disarmament -\nUnion Calendar -\nUnitarisation -\nUnitary state -\nUnited Kingdom -\nUnited States -\nUnited States-Russia mutual detargeting -\nUnited States Republican Party presidential nomination, 2008 -\nUnited States Supreme Court -\nUnited We Stand America -\nUniversal health care -\nUniversal manhood suffrage -\nUniversal suffrage -\nUniversity of California, Santa Cruz -\nUniversity of Essex -\nUniversity of Idaho -\nUniversity of Puget Sound -\nUniversity of Sydney -\nUniversity of Texas at Austin -\nUniversity of Ulster -\nUniversity reform in Argentina -\nUp with People -\nUranium mining controversy in Kakadu National Park -\nUrban75 -\nUribism -\nUrmia Manifesto of the United Free Assyria -\nUrsinus College -\nUse of Sciences Po -\nUtah League of Cities and Towns -\nUtopia -\nUtopian socialism -\n\nVDARE -\nVanguard party -\nVanguardism -\nVanishing mediator -\nVarieties of democracy -\nVeterans of Future Wars -\nVeto -\nVice Consul -\nVictoria University of Wellington -\nVillagization -\nVirgil Goode -\nVirginians Against Drug Violence -\nVirtue -\nVladimir Lenin -\nVote allocation -\nVote counting system -\nVote pairing -\nVotebank -\nVoter database -\nVoter fatigue -\nVoter registration -\nVoter turnout -\nVoting -\nVoting bloc -\nVoting machine -\nVoting system -\nVoting systems -\n\nWOMBLES -\nWage labour -\nWage slavery -\nWages -\nWar -\nWar on Terrorism -\nWard Churchill 9/11 essay controversy -\nWashington and Lee University -\nWater fluoridation controversy -\nWeek of Silence -\nWelfare reform -\nWest Gosforth -\nWest Side Nut Club -\nWestern Journalism Center -\nWhich? -\nWhip (politics) -\nWhirl-Mart -\nWhite-collar worker -\nWhite Poppy -\nWhite nationalism -\nWhite separatism -\nWhite supremacy -\nWhitewash (censorship) -\nWillard Saulsbury, Sr. -\nWinston Churchill -\nWipeout (elections) -\nWomen's suffrage -\nWomen's suffrage in South Carolina -\nWomen in politics -\nWomen of Color Resource Center -\nWorker center -\nWorkers' Awaaz -\nWorkers' control -\nWorkers' council -\nWorkers' self-management -\nWorking class -\nWorld's Smallest Political Quiz -\nWorld Network of Users and Survivors of Psychiatry -\nWorld War II -\nWorld cultures -\nWorld government -\nWorld government in science fiction -\nWorld revolution -\nWrit of election -\nWrite-in candidate -\n\nXenophon -\n\nYearlyKos -\nYoung Lords -\nYoung Socialist Alliance -\nYouth pride -\nYouth activism -\nYouth council -\nYouth politics -\nYouth vote -\n\nZikism -\nZionist Freedom Alliance -\nZombie Lurch -\nZvakwana -\nÜrün\n"}
{"id": "47064780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47064780", "title": "Island Chain Strategy", "text": "Island Chain Strategy\n\nThe Island Chain Strategy is a strategy first mentioned by American foreign policy commentator John Foster Dulles in 1951 during the Korean War. It suggests surrounding the Soviet Union and China by sea. \nThe island chain concept did not become a major theme in American policy, however it has become a major fixation of Chinese analysts to this day. The concept heightens Chinese fears that they will be encircled by American forces, and emphasizes the geographical and strategic importance of Taiwan. It helps shape Chinese naval options and strategies, as well as playing a role in economic policy.\n\nWithin Chinese writings the Island Chain Strategy is divided into 3 parts, namely First Island Chain, the Second Island Chain and the Third Island Chain.\n\nThe First Island Chain begins at the Kuril Islands, and finishes towards Borneo and the northern portion of the Philippines. It is the first chain to block socialist countries aligned with the USSR, and after Soviet Russia is dealt with the chain would then turn its focus on China. The key part of the first chain would be Taiwan.\n\nBecause the island chain is built up of a series of landmasses, it is also called the \"unsinkable aircraft carrier\", especially in reference to Taiwan.\n\nThe Second Island Chain can refer to two different interpretations, but the version most commonly used refers to the island chain which is formed by the Ogasawara Islands and Volcano Islands of Japan, in addition to Mariana Islands which is United States territory.\n\nAs it is located within the middle portion of the Pacific Ocean, it acts as a second strategic defense line for the United States.\n\nThe Third Island Chain is the final part of the strategy. Its island chain begins at the Aleutian Islands, and finishes up in Oceania. The key part of the Third Island Chain would be the Hawaiian Islands of the United States.\n\nThe primary target of the doctrine was the USSR; however, additional targets also included the People's Republic of China and Vietnam. After the USSR collapsed in 1991, China soon became the major target of the doctrine.\n\n"}
{"id": "17090832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17090832", "title": "Judaism and political radicalism", "text": "Judaism and political radicalism\n\nThe historical contribution of Jews to the political Left has been well documented. Both as individual theorists and activists of the stature of Karl Marx, Leon Trotsky, Rosa Luxemburg, Léon Blum and Emma Goldman, and as organised mass labour movements in, for example, revolutionary Russia and early-mid twentieth century Warsaw, Amsterdam, Paris, Toronto, New York and London, Jews have been conspicuous for their socialist and communist affiliations.\n\nHistorical analysis of the dynamics of this Jewish/Left alliance, however, has been far less conclusive. Considerable dissonance exists, for example, concerning the factors which attracted Jews to the Left, the extent to which leading Jewish Left activists were originally motivated by or subsequently influenced by explicitly Jewish concerns, and the degree to which one can reasonably speak of a specific or unique Jewish contribution to the international Left. In addition, discussion of these factors has often been inhibited by concerns regarding the use of the alleged Jewish-Bolshevik conspiracy by the Nazis and other anti-Semitic groups.\n\nAccording to Paul Johnson, Jewish society in the last 1,500 years has been designed to produce and support intellectuals who largely focused their talents on rabbinical studies. Johnson asserts that \"quite suddenly, around the year 1800, this ancient and highly efficient social machine for the production of intellectuals began to shift its output. Instead of pouring all its products into the closed circuit of rabbinical studies, . . . it unleashed a significant and ever-growing proportion of them into secular life. This was an event of shattering importance in world history.\"\n\nThe French Revolution of 1789 promised equality, freedom, and an end to discrimination for all including the Jews. The subsequent political emancipation of the Jews in most of Western and Central Europe provoked an anti-modern and specifically anti-Jewish backlash from traditional conservative groupings. In response, Jews allied themselves with the modern liberalist forces, and played an important role in the 1848 European revolutions which sought to entrench the gains of liberalism. However, the ensuing failure of liberalism to protect Jewish rights led many Jews to seek new allies within the growing working-class movement. The international character of the socialist movement seemingly offered Jews protection from old religious and national hatreds. Thus in contrast to most other national groups, Jews had a double reason to join the proletarian revolution. They were discriminated against both on class grounds and on racial grounds.\n\nNot surprisingly, many Jews made a rational decision to join a movement which promised to defend and extend the equal rights granted by the French Revolution. The prominence of Jews in the Left can, therefore, be attributed to reasons of self-interest as much as to any idealistic motivation. Equally, the subsequent decline of Jewish involvement in the Left can be attributed to relatively objective factors such as the creation of the State of Israel which transformed Jewish dependence from international to national forces.\n\nMany young Jews rejected the Orthodoxy of their parents and turned to the great Jewish secular movements of Zionism, socialism, and Bundism [a Jewish labor movement founded in Eastern Europe in the 19th century]. They viewed their parents' faith in the eventual coming of the Messiah as a dangerous passivity in the face of imminent danger to the Jewish people. They took their fate into their own hands and created new forms of secular Jewish messianic activity. Their concern for changing the world by rejecting their religious background shows how deeply they were immersed in the Jewish search for redemption.\n\nA persistent theme among critics of Jews—particularly those on the pre-World War II right—has been that the Bolshevik revolution was a Jewish revolution and that the Soviet Union was dominated by Jews. This theme appears in a wide range of writings, from Henry Ford's International Jew, to published statements by a long list of British, French, and American political figures in the 1920s (Sir Winston Churchill, Woodrow Wilson, and David Lloyd George), and, in its most extreme form, by Adolf Hitler, who wrote:\n\n\"Now begins the last great revolution. By wresting political power for himself, the Jew casts off the few remaining shreds of disguise he still wears. The democratic plebeian Jew turns into the blood Jew and the tyrant of peoples. In a few years he will try to exterminate the national pillars of intelligence and, by robbing the peoples of their natural spiritual leadership, will make them ripe for the slavish lot of a permanent subjugation. The most terrible example of this is Russia.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51913", "title": "Legislation", "text": "Legislation\n\nLegislation (or \"statutory law\") is law which has been promulgated (or \"enacted\") by a legislature or other governing body or the process of making it. Before an item of legislation becomes law it may be known as a bill, and may be broadly referred to as \"legislation\", while it remains under consideration to distinguish it from other business. Legislation can have many purposes: to regulate, to authorize, to outlaw, to provide (funds), to sanction, to grant, to declare or to restrict. It may be contrasted with a non-legislative act which is adopted by an executive or administrative body under the authority of a legislative act or for implementing a legislative act.\n\nUnder the Westminster system, an item of primary legislation is known as an Act of Parliament after enactment.\n\nLegislation is usually proposed by a member of the legislature (e.g. a member of Congress or Parliament), or by the executive, whereupon it is debated by members of the legislature and is often amended before passage. Most large legislatures enact only a small fraction of the bills proposed in a given session. Whether a given bill will be proposed and is generally a matter of the legislative priorities of government.\n\nLegislation is regarded as one of the three main functions of government, which are often distinguished under the doctrine of the separation of powers. Those who have the formal power to \"create\" legislation are known as legislators; a judicial branch of government will have the formal power to \"interpret\" legislation (see statutory interpretation); the executive branch of government can act only within the powers and limits set by the law.\n\nThe function and procedures are primarily the responsibility of the legislature. However, there are situations where legislation is made by other bodies or means, such as when constitutional law or secondary legislation is enacted. Such other forms of law-making include referendums, orders in council or regulations. The term \"legislation\" is sometimes used to include these situations, or the term \"primary legislation\" may be used to exclude these other forms.\n\nThe phrase \"dead letter\" refers to legislation that has not been revoked, but that has become inapplicable or obsolete or is no longer enforced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16102540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16102540", "title": "Libertarian anarchism", "text": "Libertarian anarchism\n\nLibertarian anarchism may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "12476895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12476895", "title": "Libertarian conservatism", "text": "Libertarian conservatism\n\nLibertarian conservatism or conservative libertarianism is a political philosophy and ideology that combines right-libertarian politics and conservative values. Libertarian conservatism advocates the greatest possible economic liberty and the least possible government regulation of social life, mirroring \"laissez-faire\" liberalism, but harnesses this to a belief in a more traditional and conservative social philosophy emphasizing authority and duty. Libertarian conservatism prioritizes liberty as its main emphasis, promoting free expression, freedom of choice and free market capitalism to achieve socially and culturally conservative ends as they reject liberal social engineering, or in the opposite way but not excluding the above, libertarian conservatism could be understood as promoting civil society through conservative institutions and authority - as family, fatherland, religion, education - in the quest of libertarian ends for less state power.\n\nFor Larry Johnston, in political science, the term \"libertarian conservatism\" is used to refer to ideologies that combine the advocacy of economic principles such as fiscal discipline, respect for contracts, defense of private property and free markets and the traditional conservative stress on self-help and freedom of choice under a \"laissez-faire\" and economically liberal capitalist society with social tenets such as the importance of religion and the value of traditional morality through a framework of limited, constitutional, representative government.\n\nFor Margaret Randall, libertarian conservatism began as an expression of individualism and the demand for personal freedom. \n\n\"Freedom and Virtue: The Conservative/Libertarian Debate\", edited by George W. Carey, contains essays which describe \"the tension between liberty and morality\" as \"the main fault line dividing the two philosophies\".\n\nNelson Hultberg wrote that there is \"philosophical common ground\" between libertarians and conservatives. \"The true conservative movement was, from the start, a blend of political libertarianism, cultural conservatism, and non-interventionism abroad bequeathed to us via the Founding Fathers\". He said that such libertarian conservatism was \"hijacked\" by neoconservatism, \"by the very enemies it was formed to fight – Fabians, New Dealers, welfarists, progressives, globalists, interventionists, militarists, nation builders, and all the rest of the collectivist ilk that was assiduously working to destroy the Founders' Republic of States\".\n\nThomas DiLorenzo wrote that libertarian conservative constitutionalists believe that the way to limit government is to enforce the United States Constitution. However, DiLorenzo criticized them by writing: \"The fatal flaw in the thinking of the libertarian/conservative constitutionalists stems from their unawareness or willful ignorance of how the founders themselves believed the Constitution could be enforced: by the citizens of the free, independent, and sovereign states, not the federal judiciary\". He wrote that the powers accrued to the federal government during the American Civil War overthrew the Constitution of 1787.\n\nIn the 1950's Frank Meyer, a prominent contributor to the \"National Review\", called his own combination libertarianism and conservatism as \"fusionism\".\n\nIn the 1990s, Lew Rockwell, Murray Rothbard and others described their libertarian conservative views as paleolibertarianism. They continued libertarian opposition to \"all forms of government intervention – economic, cultural, social, international\", but also upholding cultural conservatism in social thought and behavior. They opposed a licentious libertarianism which advocated \"freedom from bourgeois morality, and social authority\". Rockwell later stated that they dropped that self-description because people confused it with paleoconservatism, which they rejected.\n\nLaurence M. Vance wrote: \"Some libertarians consider libertarianism to be a lifestyle rather than a political philosophy... They apparently don't know the difference between libertarianism and libertinism\".\n\nFriedrich Hayek, Ludwig von Mises, Milton Friedman, Richard Posner, Richard Epstein and Albert Jay Nock have been described as libertarian conservatives. Former U.S. Congressman Ron Paul and his son U.S. Senator Rand Paul have been described as combining libertarian and conservative \"small government\" ideas and showing how the Constitution defends the individual and most libertarian views.\n\nIn 1975, Ronald Reagan stated: \"I believe the very heart and soul of conservatism is libertarianism\". However, some libertarians criticized Reagan for un-libertarian policy positions.\n\nEdward Feser emphasized that libertarianism does not require individuals to reject traditional conservative values. Libertarianism supports the ideas of liberty, privacy and ending the war on marijuana at the legal level without changing personal values.\n\nLibertarian conservatism subscribes to the libertarian idea of free market capitalism, advocating minimal to no government interference in the market. A number of libertarian conservatives favor Austrian economics and are critical of fiat money, with many supporting policies like pay what you want cafes. Libertarian conservatives also advocate for ways to privatize services run by the government, from airports to toll booths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19012", "title": "Monarch", "text": "Monarch\n\nA monarch is a sovereign head of state in a monarchy. A monarch may exercise the highest authority and power in the state, or others may wield that power on behalf of the monarch. Typically a monarch either personally inherits the lawful right to exercise the state's sovereign rights (often referred to as \"the throne\" or \"the crown\") or is selected by an established process from a family or cohort eligible to provide the nation's monarch. Alternatively, an individual may become monarch by conquest, acclamation or a combination of means. A monarch usually reigns for life or until abdication.\n\nIf a young child is crowned the monarch, a regent is often appointed to govern until the monarch reaches the requisite adult age to rule. Monarchs' actual powers vary from one monarchy to another and in different eras; on one extreme, they may be autocrats (absolute monarchy) wielding genuine sovereignty; on the other they may be ceremonial heads of state who exercise little or no direct power or only reserve powers, with actual authority vested in a parliament or other body (constitutional monarchy).\n\nA monarch can reign in multiple monarchies simultaneously. For example, the monarchy of Canada and the monarchy of the United Kingdom are separate states, but they share the same monarch through personal union.\n\nMonarchs, as such, bear a variety of titles – king or queen, prince or princess (e.g., Sovereign Prince of Monaco), emperor or empress (e.g., Emperor of China, Emperor of Ethiopia, Emperor of Japan, Emperor of India), archduke, duke or grand duke (e.g., Grand Duke of Luxembourg), emir (e.g., Emir of Qatar) or sultan (e.g., Sultan of Oman). \"Prince\" is sometimes used as a generic term to refer to any monarch regardless of title, especially in older texts.\n\nA king can also be a queen's husband and a queen can be a king's wife. If both of the couple reign, neither person is generally considered to be a consort. \n\nMonarchy is political or sociocultural in nature, and is generally (but not always) associated with hereditary rule. Most monarchs, both historically and in the present day, have been born and brought up within a royal family (whose rule over a period of time is referred to as a dynasty) and trained for future duties. Different systems of succession have been used, such as proximity of blood (male preference or absolute), primogeniture, agnatic seniority, Salic law, etc. While traditionally most monarchs have been male, female monarchs have also ruled, and the term queen regnant refers to a ruling monarch, as distinct from a queen consort, the wife of a reigning king.\n\nSome monarchies are non-hereditary. In an elective monarchy, the monarch is elected but otherwise serves as any other monarch. Historical examples of elective monarchy include the Holy Roman Emperors (chosen by prince-electors, but often coming from the same dynasty) and the free election of kings of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. Modern examples include the Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia, who is appointed by the Conference of Rulers every five years or after the king's death, and the pope of the Roman Catholic Church, who serves as sovereign of the Vatican City State and is elected to a life term by the College of Cardinals.\n\nIn recent centuries, many states have abolished the monarchy and become republics (however see, e.g., United Arab Emirates). Advocacy of government by a republic is called republicanism, while advocacy of monarchy is called monarchism. A principal advantage of hereditary monarchy is the immediate continuity of national leadership, as illustrated in the classic phrase \"The [old] King is dead. Long live the [new] King!\". In cases where the monarch serves mostly as a ceremonial figure (e.g. most modern constitutional monarchies) real leadership does not depend on the monarch.\n\nA form of government may in fact be hereditary without being considered monarchy, such as a family dictatorship.\n\nMonarchies take a wide variety of forms, such as the two co-princes of Andorra, positions held simultaneously by the Roman Catholic Bishop of Urgel (Spain) and the elected President of France (although strictly Andorra is a diarchy). Similarly, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia is considered a monarch despite only holding the position for five years at a time.\n\nHereditary succession within one patrilineal family has been most common (although, see the Rain Queen), with preference for children over siblings, sons over daughters. In Europe, some peoples practiced equal division of land and regalian rights among sons or brothers, as in the Germanic states of the Holy Roman Empire, until after the medieval era and sometimes (e.g., Ernestine duchies) into the 19th century. Other European realms practice one form or another of primogeniture, whereunder a lord was succeeded by his eldest son or, if he had none, by his brother, his daughters or sons of daughters.\n\nThe system of tanistry was semi-elective and gave weight also to ability and merit.\n\nThe Salic law, practiced in France and in the Italian territories of the House of Savoy, stipulated that only men could inherit the crown. In most fiefs, in the event of the demise of all legitimate male members of the patrilineage, a female of the family could succeed (semi-Salic law). In most realms, daughters and sisters were eligible to succeed a ruling kinsman before more distant male relatives (male-preference primogeniture), but sometimes the husband of the heiress became the ruler, and most often also received the title, \"jure uxoris\". Spain today continues this model of succession law, in the form of cognatic primogeniture. In more complex medieval cases, the sometimes conflicting principles of proximity and primogeniture battled, and outcomes were often idiosyncratic.\n\nAs the average life span increased, an eldest son was more likely to reach majority age before the death of his father, and primogeniture became increasingly favoured over proximity, tanistry, seniority and election.\n\nIn 1980, Sweden became the first monarchy to declare \"equal primogeniture\", \"absolute primogeniture\" or \"full cognatic primogeniture\", meaning that the eldest child of the monarch, whether female or male, ascends to the throne. Other nations have since adopted this practice: Netherlands in 1983, Norway in 1990, Belgium in 1991, Denmark in 2009, and Luxembourg in 2011. The United Kingdom adopted absolute (equal) primogeniture on April 25, 2013, following agreement by the prime ministers of the sixteen Commonwealth Realms at the 22nd Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting.\n\nIn some monarchies, such as Saudi Arabia, succession to the throne usually first passes to the monarch's next eldest brother and so on through his other brothers, and only after them to the monarch's children (\"agnatic seniority\"). In some other monarchies (e.g. Jordan), the monarch chooses who will be his successor within the royal family, who need not necessarily be his eldest son.\n\nWhatever the rules of succession, there have been many cases of a monarch being overthrown and replaced by a usurper who would often install his own family on the throne.\n\nA series of Pharaohs ruled Ancient Egypt over the course of three millennia (circa 3150 BC to 31 BC), until it was conquered by the Roman Empire. In the same time period several kingdoms flourished in the nearby Nubia region, with at least one of them, that of the so-called A-Group culture, apparently influencing the customs of Egypt itself. From the 6th to 19th centuries, Egypt was variously part of the Byzantine Empire, Islamic Empire, Mamluk Sultanate, Ottoman Empire and British Empire with a distant monarch. The Sultanate of Egypt was a short lived protectorate of the United Kingdom from 1914 until 1922, when it became the Kingdom of Egypt and Sultan Fuad I changed his title to King. After the Egyptian Revolution of 1952 the monarchy was dissolved and Egypt became a republic.\n\nWest Africa hosted the Kanem Empire (700–1376) and its successor, the Bornu principality which survives to the present day as one of the traditional states of Nigeria.\n\nIn the Horn of Africa, the Kingdom of Aksum and later the Zagwe Dynasty, Ethiopian Empire (1270–1974), and Aussa Sultanate were ruled by a series of monarchs. Haile Selassie, the last Emperor of Ethiopia, was deposed in a communist coup. Various Somali Sultanates also existed, including the Adal Sultanate (led by the Walashma dynasty of the Ifat Sultanate), Sultanate of Mogadishu, Ajuran Sultanate, Warsangali Sultanate, Geledi Sultanate, Majeerteen Sultanate and Sultanate of Hobyo.\n\nCentral and Southern Africa were largely isolated from other regions until the modern era, but they did later feature kingdoms like the Kingdom of Kongo (1400–1914).\n\nThe Zulu people formed a powerful Zulu Kingdom in 1816, one that was subsequently absorbed into the Colony of Natal in 1897. The Zulu king continues to hold a hereditary title and an influential cultural position in contemporary South Africa, although he has no direct political power. Other tribes in the country, such as the Xhosa and the Tswana, have also had and continue to have a series of kings and chiefs whose local precedence is recognised, but who exercise no legal authority.\n\nAs part of the Scramble for Africa, Europeans conquered, bought, or established African kingdoms and styled themselves as monarchs due to them.\n\nCurrently the African nations of Morocco, Lesotho and Swaziland are sovereign monarchies under dynasties that are native to the continent. Places like St. Helena, Ceuta, Melilla and the Canary Islands are ruled by the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or the King of Spain. So-called \"sub-national monarchies\" of varying sizes can be found all over the rest of the continent, e.g. the Yoruba city-state of Akure in south-western Nigeria is something of an elective monarchy: its reigning Oba having to be chosen by an electoral college of nobles, from amongst a finite collection of royal princes of the realm.\n\nWithin the Holy Roman Empire different titles were used by nobles exercising various degrees of sovereignty within their borders (see below). Such titles were granted or recognised by the Emperor or Pope. Adoption of a new title to indicate sovereign or semi-sovereign status was not always recognized by other governments or nations, sometimes causing diplomatic problems.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century many small monarchies in Europe merged with other territories to form larger entities, and following World War I and World War II, many monarchies were abolished, but of those remaining all except Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Vatican City and Monaco were headed by a king or queen.\n\nIn China, before the abolition of the monarchy in 1912, the Emperor of China was traditionally regarded as the ruler of \"All under heaven\". \"King\" is the usual translation for the term \"wang\" 王, the sovereign before the Qin dynasty and during the Ten Kingdoms period. During the early Han dynasty, China had a number of kingdoms, each about the size of a province and subordinate to the Emperor.\nIn Korea, \"Daewang\" (great king), or \"Wang\" (king), was a Chinese royal style used in many states rising from the dissolution of Gojoseon, Buyeo, Goguryeo, Baekje, Silla and Balhae, Goryeo, Joseon. The legendary Dangun Wanggeom founded the first kingdom, Gojoseon. Some scholars maintain that the term \"Dangun\" also refers to a title used by all rulers of Gojoseon, and that \"Wanggeom\" is the proper name of the founder. \"Gyuwon Sahwa\" (1675) describes The Annals of the Danguns as a collection of nationalistic legends. The monarchs of Goguryeo and some monarchs of Silla used the title \"Taewang\", meaning the \"Great king\". The early monarchs of Silla have used the title of \"Geoseogan\", \"Chachaung\", \"Isageum\", and finally \"Maripgan\" until 503. The title \"Gun\" (prince) can refer to the dethroned rulers of Joseon dynasty as well. Under the Korean Empire (1897–1910), the rulers of Korea were given the title of \"Hwangje\", meaning the \"Emperor\". Today, Members of the Korean Imperial Family continue to participate in numerous traditional ceremonies, and groups exist to preserve Korea's lmperial heritage.\n\nThe Japanese monarchy is now the only monarchy to still use the title of Emperor.\n\nIn modern history, between 1925 and 1979, Iran was ruled by two Emperors from the Pahlavi dynasty that used the title of \"Shahanshah\" (or \"King of Kings\"). The last Iranian Shahanshah was King Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who was forced to abdicate the throne as a result of a revolution in Iran. In fact Persian (Iranian) kingdom goes back to about 2,700 BC (see List of Kings of Persia), but reached its ultimate height and glory when King Cyrus the Great (Known as \"The Great Kourosh\" in Iran) started the Achaemenid dynasty, and under his rule, the empire embraced all the previous civilized states of the ancient Near East, expanded vastly and eventually conquered most of Southwest Asia and much of Central Asia and the Caucasus. From the Mediterranean sea and Hellespont in the west to the Indus River in the east, Cyrus the Great created the largest empire the world had yet seen.\n\nThailand and Bhutan are like the United Kingdom in that they are constitutional monarchies ruled by a King. Jordan and many other Middle Eastern monarchies are ruled by a Malik and parts of the United Arab Emirates, such as Dubai, are still ruled by monarchs.\n\nSaudi Arabia is the largest Arab state in Western Asia by land area and the second-largest in the Arab world (after Algeria). It was founded by Abdul-Aziz bin Saud in 1932, although the conquests which eventually led to the creation of the Kingdom began in 1902 when he captured Riyadh, the ancestral home of his family, the House of Saud; succession to the throne was limited to sons of Ibn Saud until 2015, when a grandson was elevated to Crown Prince. The Saudi Arabian government has been an absolute monarchy since its inception, and designates itself as Islamic. The King bears the title \"Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques\" in reference to the two holiest places in Islam: Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, and Masjid al-Nabawi in Medina.\nOman is led by Monarch Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said. The Kingdom of Jordan is one of the Middle East's more modern monarchies is also ruled by a Malik. In Arab and arabized countries, Malik (absolute King) is absolute word to render a monarch and is superior to all other titles. Nepal abolished their monarchy in 2008. Sri Lanka had a complex system of monarchies from 543BC to 1815. Between 47BC-42BC Anula of Sri Lanka became the country's first female head of state as well as Asia's first head of state.\n\nIn Malaysia's constitutional monarchy, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong (The Supreme Lord of the Federation) is \"de facto\" rotated every five years among the nine Rulers of the Malay states of Malaysia (those nine of the thirteen states of Malaysia that have hereditary royal rulers), elected by \"Majlis Raja-Raja\" (Conference of Rulers).\n\nUnder Brunei's 1959 constitution, the Sultan of Brunei is the head of state with full executive authority, including emergency powers, since 1962. The Prime Minister of Brunei is a title held by the Sultan. As the prime minister, the Sultan presides over the cabinet.\n\nCambodia has been a kingdom since the 1st century. The power of the absolute monarchy was reduced when it became the French Protectorate of Cambodia from 1863 to 1953. It returned to an absolute monarchy from 1953 until the establishment of a republic following the 1970 coup. The monarchy was restored as a constitutional monarchy in 1993 with the king as a largely symbolic figurehead.\nIn the Philippines, the pre-Colonial Filipino nobility, variously titled the \"harì\" (today meaning \"king\"), \"Lakan\", \"Raja\" and \"Datu\" belonged to the caste called \"Uring Maharlika\" (Noble Class). When the islands were annexed to the Spanish Empire in the late 16th century, the Spanish monarch became the sovereign while local rulers often retained their prestige as part of the Christianised nobility called the \"Principalía\". After the Spanish–American War, the country was ceded to the United States of America and made into a territory and eventually a Commonwealth, thus ending monarchism. While the Philippines is currently a republic, the Sultan of Sulu and Sultan of Maguindanao retain their titles only for ceremonial purposes, but are considered ordinary citizens by the 1987 Constitution. Bhutan has been an independent kingdom since 1907. The first Druk Gyalpo (\"Dragon King\") was elected and thereafter became a hereditary absolute monarchy. It became a constitutional monarchy in 2008.\n\nTibet was a monarchy since the Tibetan Empire in the 6th century. It was ruled by the Yuan Dynasty following the Mongol invasion in the 13th century and became an effective diarchy with the Dalai Lama as co-ruler. It came under the rule of the Chinese Qing Dynasty from 1724 until 1912 when it gained de facto independence. The Dalai Lama became absolute temporal monarch until incorporation of Tibet into the People's Republic of China in 1951.\n\nNepal was a monarchy for most of its history until becoming a federal republic in 2008.\n\nThe concept of monarchy existed in the Americas long before the arrival of European colonialists. When the Europeans arrived they referred to these tracts of land within territories of different aboriginal groups to be kingdoms, and the leaders of these groups were often referred to by the Europeans as Kings, particularly hereditary leaders.\n\nPre-colonial titles that were used included:\n\nThe first local monarch to emerge in North America after colonization was Jean-Jacques Dessalines, who declared himself Emperor of Haiti on September 22, 1804. Haiti again had an emperor, Faustin I from 1849 to 1859. In South America, Brazil had a royal house ruling as emperor between 1822 and 1889, under Emperors Pedro I and Pedro II.\n\nBetween 1931 and 1983 nine other previous British colonies attained independence as kingdoms. All, including Canada, are in a personal union relationship under a shared monarch. Therefore, though today there are legally ten American monarchs, one person occupies each distinct position.\n\nIn addition to these sovereign states, there are also a number of sub-national ones. In Bolivia, for example, the Afro-Bolivian king claims descent from an African dynasty that was taken from its homeland and sold into slavery. Though largely a ceremonial title today, the position of \"king of the Afro-Bolivians\" is officially recognized by the government of Bolivia.\n\nPolynesian societies were ruled by an \"ariki\" from ancient times. The title is variously translated as \"supreme chief\", \"paramount chief\" or \"king\".\n\nThe Kingdom of Tahiti was founded in 1788. Sovereignty was ceded to France in 1880 although descendants of the Pōmare Dynasty claim the title of King of Tahiti.\n\nThe Kingdom of Hawaii was established in 1795 and overthrown in 1893.\n\nAn independent Kingdom of Rarotonga was established in 1858. It became a protectorate of the United Kingdom at its own request in 1893.\n\nSeru Epenisa Cakobau ruled the short lived Kingdom of Fiji, a constitutional monarchy, from 1871 to 1874 when he voluntarily ceded sovereignty of the islands to the United Kingdom. After independence in 1970, the Dominion of Fiji retained the British monarch as head of state until it became a republic following a military coup in 1987.\n\nAustralia, New Zealand (including the Cook Islands and Niue), Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands and Tuvalu are sovereign states within the Commonwealth of Nations that currently have Elizabeth II as their reigning constitutional monarch.\n\nThe Pitcairn Islands are part of the British Overseas Territories with Elizabeth II as the reigning constitutional monarch.\n\nTonga is the only remaining sovereign kingdom in Oceania. It has had a monarch since the 10th century and became a constitutional monarchy in 1875. In 2008, King George Tupou V relinquished most of the powers of the monarchy and the position is now largely ceremonial.\n\nIn New Zealand the position of Māori King was established in 1858. The role is largely cultural and ceremonial, and has no legal power.\n\nUvea, Alo and Sigave in the French territory of Wallis and Futuna have non-sovereign elective monarchs.\n\nThe usage and meaning of a monarch's specific title has historically been defined by tradition, law and diplomatic considerations.\n\nNote that some titles borne by monarchs have several meanings and may not exclusively designate a monarch. A Prince may be a person of royal blood (some languages uphold this distinction, see Fürst). A Duke may belong to a peerage and hold a dukedom (title) but no duchy (territory). In Imperial Russia, a Grand Duke was a son or patrilineal grandson of the Tsar or Tsarina. Holders of titles in these alternative meanings did not enjoy the same status as monarchs of the same title.\n\nWithin the Holy Roman Empire, there were numerous titles used by noblemen whose authority within their territory sometimes approached sovereignty, even though they acknowledged the Holy Roman Emperor as suzerain; Elector, Grand Duke, Margrave, Landgrave and Count Palatine, as well as secular princes like kings, dukes, princes and \"princely counts\" (\"Gefürstete Grafen\"), and ecclesiastical princes like Prince-Archbishops, Prince-Bishops and Prince-Abbots. A ruler with a title below emperor or king might still be regarded as a monarch, outranking a nobleman of the same ostensible title (e.g., Antoine, Duke of Lorraine, a reigning sovereign, and his younger brother, Claude, Duke of Guise, a nobleman in the peerage of France).\n\nThe table below lists titles in approximate order of precedence. According to protocol any holder of a title indicating sovereignty took precedence over any non-sovereign titleholder. \nWhen a difference exists below, male titles are placed to the left and female titles are placed to the right of the slash.\n\nIt is not uncommon that people who are not generally seen as monarchs nevertheless use monarchical titles. There are at least five cases of this:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1906130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906130", "title": "New Public Management", "text": "New Public Management\n\nNew Public Management (NPM) is an approach to running public service organizations that is used in government and public service institutions and agencies, at both sub-national and national levels. The term was first introduced by academics in the UK and Australia to describe approaches that were developed during the 1980s as part of an effort to make the public service more \"businesslike\" and to improve its efficiency by using private sector management models. As with the private sector, which focuses on \"customer service\", NPM reforms often focused on the \"...centrality of citizens who were the recipient of the services or customers to the public sector.\" NPM reformers experimented with using decentralized service delivery models, to give local agencies more freedom in how they delivered programs or services. In some cases, NPM reforms that used e-government consolidated a program or service to a central location to reduce costs. Some governments tried using quasi-market structures, so that the public sector would have to compete against the private sector (notably in the UK, in health care). Key themes in NPM were \"...financial control, value for money, increasing efficiency...,identifying and setting targets and continuance monitoring of performance, handing over.. power to the senior management\" executives. Performance was assessed with audits, benchmarks and performance evaluations. Some NPM reforms used private sector companies to deliver what were formerly public services.\n\nNPM advocates in some countries worked to remove \"...collective agreements [in favour of]...individual rewards packages at senior levels combined with short term contracts\" and introduce private sector-style corporate governance, including using a Board of Directors approach to strategic guidance for public organizations. While NPM approaches have been used in many countries around the world, NPM is particularly associated with the most industrialized OECD nations such as the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States of America. NPM advocates focus on using approaches from the private sector–the corporate or business world–which can be successfully applied in the public sector and in a public administration context. NPM approaches have been used to reform the public sector, its policies and its programs. NPM advocates claim that it is a more efficient and effective means of attaining the same outcome. \n\nIn NPM, citizens are viewed as \"customers\" and public servants are viewed as public managers. NPM tries to realign the relationship between public service managers and their political superiors by making a parallel relationship between the two. Under NPM, public managers have incentive-based motivation such as pay-for-performance, and clear performance targets are often set, which are assessed by using performance evaluations. As well, managers in an NPM paradigm may have greater discretion and freedom as to how they go about achieving the goals set for them. This NPM approach is contrasted with the traditional public administration model, in which institutional decision-making, policy-making and public service delivery is guided by regulations, legislation and administrative procedures. \n\nNPM reforms use approaches such as disaggregation, customer satisfaction initiatives, customer service efforts, applying an entrepreneurial spirit to public service, and introducing innovations. The NPM system allows \"the expert manager to have a greater discretion.\" \"Public Managers under the New Public Management reforms can provide a range of choices from which customers can choose, including the right to opt out of the service delivery system completely\".\n\nThe first practices of New Public Management emerged in the United Kingdom under the leadership of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Thatcher played the functional role of “policy entrepreneur\" and the official role of prime minister. Thatcher drove changes in public management policy in such areas as organizational methods, civil service, labor relations, expenditure planning, financial management, audit, evaluation, and procurement. Thatcher's successor, John Major, kept public management policy on the agenda of the Conservative government, leading to the implementation of the Next Steps Initiative. Major also launched the programs of the Citizens Charter Initiative, Competing for Quality, Resource Accounting and Budgeting, and the Private Finance Initiative.\n\nA term was coined in the late 1980s to denote a new (or renewed) focus on the importance of management and ‘production engineering’ in public service delivery, which often linked to doctrines of economic rationalism (Hood 1989, Pollitt 1993). During this timeframe public management became an active area of policy-making in numerous other countries, notably in New Zealand, Australia, and Sweden. At the same time, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) established its Public Management Committee and Secretariat (PUMA), conferring to public management the status normally accorded more conventional domains of policy. In the 1990s, public management was a major item on President Clinton’s agenda. Early policy actions of the Clinton administration included launching the National Partnership and signing into law the Government Performance and Results Act. Currently there are few indications that public management issues will vanish from governmental policy agendas. A recent study showed that in Italy, municipal directors are aware of a public administration now being oriented toward new public management where they are assessed according to the results they produce.\n\nThe term New Public Management (NPM) expresses the idea that the cumulative flow of policy decisions over the past twenty years has amounted to a substantial shift in the governance and management of the “state sector” in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia, Scandinavia, and North America. A benign interpretation is that these decisions have been a defensible, if imperfect, response to policy problems. Those problems as well as their solutions were formulated within the policy-making process. The agenda-setting process has been heavily influenced by electoral commitments to improve macro- economic performance and to contain growth in the public sector, as well as by a growing perception of public bureaucracies as being inefficient. The alternative-generation process has been heavily influenced by ideas coming from economics and from various quarters within the field of management.\n\nAlthough the origins of NPM came from Westernized countries it expanded to a variety of other countries in the 1990s. Before the 1990s, NPM was largely associated to an idea utilized by developed countries that are particularly Anglo-Saxon. However the 1990s have seen countries in Africa, Asia and other countries looking into using this method. In Africa, downsizing and decrease of user fees have been widely introduced. These autonomous agencies within the public sectors have been established in these areas. Performance contracting became a common policy in crisis states worldwide. Contracting out of this magnitude can be used to do things such as waste management, cleaning, laundry, catering and road maintenance.\n\nNPM was accepted as the \"gold standard for administrative reform\" in the 1990s. The idea for using this method for government reform was that if the government guided private-sector principles were used rather than rigid hierarchical bureaucracy, it would work more efficiently. NPM promotes a shift from bureaucratic administration to business-like professional management. NPM was cited as the solution for management ills in various organizational context and policy making in education and health care reform.\n\nThe basic principles of NPM is can best be described when split into seven different aspects elaborated by Christopher Hood in 1991. Hood also invented the term NPM itself. They are the following:\n\nBecause of its belief in the importance and strength of privatizing government, it is critical to have an emphasis on management by engaging in hands-on methods. This theory allows leaders the freedom to manage freely and open up discretion.\n\nIts important to maintain explicit standards and measures of performance in a workforce. Using this method promotes clarification of goals/intent, targets, and indicators for progression.\n\nThe third point acknowledges the \"shift from the use of input controls and bureaucratic procedures to rules relying on output controls measured by quantitive performance indicators\". This aspect requires using performance based assessments when looking to outsource work to private companies/groups.\n\nNPM advocates often shifted from a unified management system to a decentralized system in which managers gain flexibility and are not limited to agency restrictions.\n\nThis characteristic focuses on how NPM can promote competition in the public sector which could in turn lower cost, eliminate debate and possibly achieve a higher quality of progress/work through the term contacts. Competition can also be found when the government offers contracts to the private sectors and the contract is given in terms of the ability to deliver the service effectively, quality of the goods provided, hence this will increase competition because the other private sector which did not get the contract will make strides to improve the quality and ability thereby facilitating competition.\n\nThis aspect focuses on the necessity to establish short-term labor contracts, develop corporate plans or business plans, performance agreements and mission statements. It also focuses on establishing a workplace in which public employees or contractors are aware of the goals and intention that agencies are trying to reach.\n\nThe most effective one which has led to its ascent into global popularity, focuses on keeping cost low and efficiency high. \"Doing more with less\" \nmoreover cost reduction stimulates efficiency and is one way which makes it different from the traditional approach of management\n\nNew Public Management draws practices from the private sector and uses them in the public sector of management. NPM reforms use market forces to hold the public sector accountable and the satisfaction of preferences as the measures of accountability. In order for this system to proceed, certain conditions, such as the existence of competition, must exist and information about choices must be available. Reforms that promise to reinvent government by way of focusing on results and customer satisfaction as opposed to administrative and political processes fail to account for legislative self-interest. Institutions other than federal government, the changes being trumpeted as reinvention would not even be announced, except perhaps on hallway bulletin boards.\n\nThere are blurred lines between policymaking and providing services in the New Public Management system. Questions have been raised about the potential politicization of the public service, when executives are hired on contract under pay-for-performance systems. There are concerns that public managers may move away from trying to meet citizens' needs. NPM brings to question integrity and compliance when dealing with incentives for public managers. Questions such as managers being more or less faithful arise. The public interest is at risk and could undermine the trust in government. Accountability can be a big issue.\n\nAlthough NPM had a dramatic impact in the 1990s on managing and policymaking, many scholars believe that NPM has hit its prime. Scholars like Frank Dunleavy believe New Public Management is phasing out because of disconnect with “customers” and their institutions. Scholars cite the Digital Era and the new importance of technology that kills the necessity of NPM. In countries that are less industrialized the NPM concept is still growing and spreading. This trend has much to do with a country's ability or inability to get their public sector in tune with the Digital Era. New Public Management was created in the Public Sector to create change based on: disaggregation, competition, and incentives. Using incentives to produce the maximum services from an organization is largely stalled in many countries and being reversed because of increased complexity.\n\nPost-NPM, many countries explored digital era governance (DEG). Dunleavy believes this new way of governance should be heavily centered upon information and technology. Technology will help re-integrate with digitalization changes. Digital Era Governance provides a unique opportunity for self- sustainability however, there are various factors that will determine whether or not DEG can be implemented successfully. When countries have proper technology, NPM simply can't compete very well with DEG. DEG does an excellent job of making services more accurate, prompt and remove most barriers and conflicts. DEG also can improve the service quality and provide local access to outsourcers.\n\nNew Public Management is often mistakingly compared to New Public Administration. The ‘New Public Administration’ movement was one established in the USA during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Though there may be some common features, the central themes of the two movements are different. The main thrust of the New Public Administration movement was to bring academic public administration into line with a radical egalitarian agenda that was influential in US university campuses. By contrast, the emphasis of the New Public Management movement a decade or so later was firmly managerial in the sense that it stressed the difference that management could and should make the quality and efficiency of public services. It focuses on public service production functions and operational issues contrasted with the focus on public accountability, ‘model employer’ public service values, ‘due process,’ and what happens inside public organizations in conventional public administration. That meant New Public Management doctrines tended to be opposed to egalitarian ideas of managing without managers, juridical doctrines of rigidly rule-bound administration and doctrines of self-government by public-service professionals like teachers and doctors.\n\nThe table below gives a side-by-side comparison of the two systems core aspects/characteristics \n"}
{"id": "38211935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38211935", "title": "Outline of political science", "text": "Outline of political science\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to politics and political science:\n\nPolitics – the exercise of power; process by which groups of people make collective decisions. Politics is the art or science of running governmental or state affairs (including behavior within civil governments), institutions, fields, and special interest groups such as the corporate, academic, and religious segments of society.\n\nPolitical science – the field concerning the theory and practice of politics and the description and analysis of political systems and political behavior.\n\n\n\nPolitical theory\n\nElection\n\nPolitical party\n\nPolitical strategy\n\nPolitical corruption\n\n\nPolitical philosophy\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99232", "title": "Political movement", "text": "Political movement\n\nIn the social sciences, a political movement is a social group that operates together to obtain a political goal, on a local, regional, national, or international scope. Political movements develop, coordinate, promulgate, revise, amend, interpret, and produce materials that are intended to address the goals of the base of the movement. A social movement in the area of politics can be organized around a single issue or set of issues, or around a set of shared concerns of a social group. In a political party, a political organization seeks to influence, or control, government policy, usually by nominating their candidates and seating candidates in politics and governmental offices. Additionally, parties participate in electoral campaigns and educational outreach or protest actions aiming to convince citizens or governments to take action on the issues and concerns which are the focus of the movement. Parties often espouse an ideology, expressed in a party program, bolstered by a written platform with specific goals, forming a [coalition] among disparate interests.\n\nSome political movements have aimed to change government policy, such as the anti-war movement, the ecology movement, and the anti-globalization movement. Many have aimed to establish or broaden the rights of subordinate groups, such as abolitionism, the women's suffrage movement, the civil rights movement, feminism, gay rights movement, the disability rights movement, or the inclusive human rights movement. Some have represented class interests, such as the Labour movement, socialism, and communism, others have expressed national aspirations, such as anticolonialist movements, Ratana, Zionism, and Sinn Féin. Political movements can also involve struggles to decentralize or centralize state control, as in anarchism, fascism, and Nazism.\n\nWith globalization, global citizens movements may have emerged.\n\nMovements may be named by outsiders, as with the levellers political movement in 17th century England was so named as a term of disparagement. Yet admirers of the movement and its aims later came to use the term, and it is the term by which they are known to history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22986", "title": "Politics", "text": "Politics\n\nPolitics (from , meaning \"affairs of the cities\") is the process of making decisions that apply to members of a group.\n\nIt refers to achieving and exercising positions of governance—organized control over a human community, particularly a state. The academic study focusing on just politics, which is therefore more targeted than all Political science, is sometimes referred to as Politology (not to be confused with Politicology).\n\nIn modern nation-states, people have formed political parties to represent their ideas. They agree to take the same position on many issues and agree to support the same changes to law and the same leaders.\n\nAn election is usually a competition between different parties. Some examples of political parties worldwide are: the African National Congress (ANC) in South Africa, the Conservatives in the United Kingdom, the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in Germany and the Indian National Congress in India.\n\nPolitics is a multifaceted word. It has a set of fairly specific meanings that are descriptive and nonjudgmental (such as \"the art or science of government\" and \"political principles\"), but often does carry a connotation of dishonest malpractice. The word has been used negatively for many years: the British national anthem as published in 1745 calls on God to \"Confound their politics\", and the phrase \"play politics\", for example, has been in use since at least 1853, when abolitionist Wendell Phillips declared: \"We do not play politics; anti-slavery is no half-jest with us.\"\n\nA variety of methods are deployed in politics, which include promoting one's own political views among people, negotiation with other political subjects, making laws, and exercising force, including warfare against adversaries. Politics is exercised on a wide range of social levels, from clans and tribes of traditional societies, through modern local governments, companies and institutions up to sovereign states, to the international level.\n\nIt is very often said that politics is about power. A political system is a framework which defines acceptable political methods within a given society. The history of political thought can be traced back to early antiquity, with seminal works such as Plato's \"Republic\", Aristotle's \"Politics\" and the works of Confucius.\n\nThe word comes from the same Greek word from which the title of Aristotle's book \"Politics\" (Πολιτικά, \"Polis\") also derives; \"polis\" means \"affairs of the cities\". The book title was rendered in Early Modern English in the mid-15th century as \"Polettiques\"; it became \"politics\" in Modern English. The singular \"politic\" first attested in English 1430 and comes from Middle French \"politique\", in turn from Latin \"politicus\", which is the Latinization of the Greek πολιτικός (\"politikos\"), meaning amongst others \"of, for, or relating to citizens\", \"civil\", \"civic\", \"belonging to the state\", in turn from πολίτης (\"polites\"), \"citizen\" and that from πόλις (\"polis\"), \"city\".\n\nFormal politics refers to the operation of a constitutional system of government and publicly defined institutions and procedures. Political parties, public policy or discussions about war and foreign affairs would fall under the category of Formal Politics. Many people view formal politics as something outside of themselves, but that can still affect their daily lives.\n\nSemi-formal politics is politics in government associations such as neighborhood associations, or student governments where student government political party politics is often important.\n\nInformal politics is understood as forming alliances, exercising power and protecting and advancing particular ideas or goals. Generally, this includes anything affecting one's daily life, such as the way an office or household is managed, or how one person or group exercises influence over another. Informal Politics is typically understood as everyday politics, hence the idea that \"politics is everywhere\".\n\nThe history of politics is reflected in the origin, development, and economics of the institutions of government.\n\nThe origin of the state is to be found in the development of the \"art of warfare\". Historically speaking, all political communities of the modern type owe their existence to successful warfare.\n\nKings, emperors and other types of monarchs in many countries including China and Japan, were considered divine. Of the institutions that ruled states, that of kingship stood at the forefront until the American Revolution put an end to the \"divine right of kings\". Nevertheless, the monarchy is among the longest-lasting political institutions, dating as early as 2100 BC in Sumeria to the 21st century AD British Monarchy. Kingship becomes an institution through the institution of hereditary monarchy.\n\nThe king often, even in absolute monarchies, ruled his kingdom with the aid of an elite group of advisors, a council without which he could not maintain power. As these advisors and others outside the monarchy negotiated for power, constitutional monarchies emerged, which may be considered the germ of constitutional government.\n\nThe greatest of the king's subordinates, the earls and dukes in England and Scotland, the dukes and counts in the Continent, always sat as a right on the council. A conqueror wages war upon the vanquished for vengeance or for plunder but an established kingdom exacts tribute. One of the functions of the council is to keep the coffers of the king full. Another is the satisfaction of military service and the establishment of lordships by the king to satisfy the task of collecting taxes and soldiers.\n\nThere are many forms of political organization, including states, non-government organizations (NGOs) and international organizations such as the United Nations. States are perhaps the predominant institutional form of political governance, where a state is understood as an institution and a government is understood as the regime in power.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, states are classified into monarchies, aristocracies, timocracies, democracies, oligarchies, and tyrannies. Due to changes across the history of politics, this classification has been abandoned.\n\nAll states are varieties of a single organizational form, the sovereign state. All the great powers of the modern world rule on the principle of sovereignty. Sovereign power may be vested on an individual as in an autocratic government or it may be vested on a group as in a constitutional government. Constitutions are written documents that specify and limit the powers of the different branches of government. Although a constitution is a written document, there is also an unwritten constitution. The unwritten constitution is continually being written by the legislative branch of government; this is just one of those cases in which the nature of the circumstances determines the form of government that is most appropriate. England did set the fashion of written constitutions during the Civil War but after the Restoration abandoned them to be taken up later by the American Colonies after their emancipation and then France after the Revolution and the rest of Europe including the European colonies.\n\nThere are many forms of government. One form is a strong central government as in France and China. Another form is local government, such as the ancient divisions in England that are comparatively weaker but less bureaucratic. These two forms helped to shape the practice of federal government, first in Switzerland, then in the United States in 1776, in Canada in 1867 and in Germany in 1871 and in 1901, Australia. Federal states introduced the new principle of agreement or contract. Compared to a federation, a confederation has a more dispersed system of judicial power. In the American Civil War, the argument by the Confederate States that a State could secede from the Union didn't stand because of the Federal government's power.\n\nAccording to professor A. V. Dicey in \"An Introduction to the Study of the Law of the Constitution\", the essential features of a federal constitution are: a) A written supreme constitution in order to prevent disputes between the jurisdictions of the Federal and State authorities; b) A distribution of power between the Federal and State governments and c) A Supreme Court vested with the power to interpret the Constitution and enforce the law of the land remaining independent of both the executive and legislative branches.\n\nGlobal politics include different practices of political globalization in relation to questions of social power: from global patterns of governance to issues of globalizing conflict. The 20th century witnessed the outcome of two world wars and not only the rise and fall of the Third Reich but also the rise and relative fall of communism. The development of the atomic bomb gave the United States a more rapid end to its conflict in Japan in World War II. Later, the hydrogen bomb became the ultimate weapon of mass destruction.\n\nGlobal politics also concerns the rise of global and international organizations. The United Nations has served as a forum for peace in a world threatened by nuclear war, \"The invention of nuclear and space weapons has made war unacceptable as an instrument for achieving political ends.\" Although an all-out final nuclear holocaust is radically undesirable for man, \"nuclear blackmail\" comes into question not only on the issue of world peace but also on the issue of national sovereignty. On a Sunday in 1962, the world stood still at the brink of nuclear war during the October Cuban Missile Crisis from the implementation of U.S. vs Soviet Union nuclear blackmail policy.\n\nAccording to political science professor Paul James, global politics is affected by \"values\": norms of human rights, ideas of human development, and beliefs such as cosmopolitanism about how we should relate to each:\n\nWilliam Pitt the Elder, speaking before the British House of Lords, 9 January 1770, observed: \"Unlimited power is apt to corrupt the minds of those who possess it.\" This was echoed more famously by John Dalberg-Acton over a century later: \"Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely.\"\n\nPolitical corruption is the use of legislated powers by government officials for illegitimate private gain. Misuse of government power for other purposes, such as repression of political opponents and general police brutality, is not considered political corruption. Neither are illegal acts by private persons or corporations not directly involved with the government. An illegal act by an officeholder constitutes political corruption only if the act is directly related to their official duties and/or power.\n\nForms of corruption vary, but include corruption, extortion, cronyism, nepotism, patronage, graft, and embezzlement. While corruption may facilitate criminal enterprise such as drug trafficking, money laundering, and trafficking, it is not restricted to these activities. The activities that constitute illegal corruption differ depending on the country or jurisdiction. For instance, certain political funding practices that are legal in one place may be illegal in another. In some cases, government officials have broad or poorly defined powers, which make it difficult to distinguish between legal and illegal actions. Worldwide, bribery alone is estimated to involve over 1 trillion US dollars annually. A state of unrestrained political corruption is known as a kleptocracy, literally meaning \"rule by thieves\".\n\nA political party is a political organization that typically seeks to attain and maintain political power within government, usually by participating in electoral campaigns, educational outreach or protest actions. Parties often espouse an expressed ideology or vision bolstered by a written platform with specific goals, forming a coalition among disparate interests.\n\nPolitical science, the study of politics, examines the acquisition and application of power. Political scientist Harold Lasswell defined politics as \"who gets what, when, and how\". Related areas of study include political philosophy, which seeks a rationale for politics and an ethic of public behaviour, as well as examining the preconditions for the formation of political communities; political economy, which attempts to develop understandings of the relationships between politics and the economy and the governance of the two; and public administration, which examines the practices of governance. The philosopher Charles Blattberg, who has defined politics as \"responding to conflict with dialogue,\" offers an account which distinguishes political philosophies from political ideologies.\n\nThe first academic chair devoted to politics in the United States was the chair of history and political science at Columbia University, first occupied by Prussian émigré Francis Lieber in 1857.\n\nSeveral different political spectra have been proposed.\n\nPolitical analysts and politicians divide politics into left wing and right wing politics, often also using the idea of center politics as a middle path of policy between the right and left. This classification is comparatively recent (it was not used by Aristotle or Hobbes, for instance), and dates from the French Revolution era, when those members of the National Assembly who supported the republic, the common people and a secular society sat on the left and supporters of the monarchy, aristocratic privilege and the Church sat on the right.\n\nThe meanings behind the labels have become more complicated over the years. A particularly influential event was the publication of the Communist Manifesto by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels in 1848. The \"Manifesto\" suggested a course of action for a proletarian revolution to overthrow the bourgeois society and abolish private property, in the belief that this would lead to a classless and stateless society.\n\nThe meaning of left-wing and right-wing varies considerably between different countries and at different times, but generally speaking, it can be said that the right wing often values tradition and inequality while the left wing often values progress and egalitarianism, with the center seeking a balance between the two such as with social democracy, libertarianism or regulated capitalism.\n\nAccording to Norberto Bobbio, one of the major exponents of this distinction, the Left believes in attempting to eradicate social inequality – believing it to be unethical or unnatural while the Right regards most social inequality as the result of ineradicable natural inequalities, and sees attempts to enforce social equality as utopian or authoritarian.\nSome ideologies, notably Christian Democracy, claim to combine left and right wing politics; according to Geoffrey K. Roberts and Patricia Hogwood, \"In terms of ideology, Christian Democracy has incorporated many of the views held by liberals, conservatives and socialists within a wider framework of moral and Christian principles.\" Movements which claim or formerly claimed to be above the left-right divide include Fascist Terza Posizione economic politics in Italy, Peronism in Argentina, and National Action Party in Mexico.\nAuthoritarianism and libertarianism refer to the amount of individual freedom each person possesses in that society relative to the state. One author describes authoritarian political systems as those where \"individual rights and goals are subjugated to group goals, expectations and conformities\", while libertarians generally oppose the state and hold the individual as sovereign. In their purest form, libertarians are anarchists , who argue for the total abolition of the state, of political parties and of other political entities, while the purest authoritarians are, by definition, totalitarians who support state control over all aspects of society. \n\nFor instance, classical liberalism (also known as \"laissez-faire liberalism\",) is a doctrine stressing individual freedom and limited government. This includes the importance of human rationality, individual property rights, free markets, natural rights, the protection of civil liberties, constitutional limitation of government, and individual freedom from restraint as exemplified in the writings of John Locke, Adam Smith, David Hume, David Ricardo, Voltaire, Montesquieu and others. According to the libertarian Institute for Humane Studies, \"the libertarian, or 'classical liberal,' perspective is that individual well-being, prosperity, and social harmony are fostered by 'as much liberty as possible' and 'as little government as necessary.'\" For anarchist political philosopher L. Susan Brown \"Liberalism and anarchism are two political philosophies that are fundamentally concerned with individual freedom yet differ from one another in very distinct ways. Anarchism shares with liberalism a radical commitment to individual freedom while rejecting liberalism's competitive property relations.\"\n\n\n"}
