{"id": "38094244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38094244", "title": "1936 Craiova Trial", "text": "1936 Craiova Trial\n\nThe 1936 Craiova Trial (Romanian: \"Procesul de la Craiova\") was a political trial of some members of the Romanian Communist Party, part of the repression of communists in the Kingdom of Romania, judged by a military tribunal in Craiova.\n\nDuring the night of July 12, 1935, police arrested Ana Pauker, a leader of the Romanian Communist Party, together with Șmil Marcovici and Dimitrie Ganev, members of the Communist Party, as well as the Kaufmans, who rented the house where the Communists' meetings took place. Further 14 communists were arrested in July 1935, during a meeting of the Union of Communist Youth. These included Andor Bernat, Vilma Kajesco, Donca Simo, Ladislau Adi, Bruc Samoil, Herbach Iancs, Schoen Ernest, Csazsar Stefan, Ana Csazsar, Naghy Stefan, Alexandru Moghioroș, Liuba Chișinevschi, Grimberg Leizer and Alexandru Drăghici.\n\nThe main charges set by military prosecutor Colonel Popescu-Cetate against the defendants were \"activity against the Romanian state\" and disturbing the peace.\n\nThe trial was supposed to start in Bucharest on June 5, 1936. Large pro-communist rallies were organized in front of the War Council in Bucharest and, in some cases, the soldiers fired warning shot to calm the crowd. Due to this, the authorities decided to hold the trial inside a military engineering barracks 7 km away from Craiova, a city with little antifascist movement and the same place where the unionists involved in the Grivița Strike of 1933 were convicted in the 1934 Craiova Trial.\n\nThe train which took the accused to Craiova was defended by a hundred gendarmes. The barracks were surrounded by all the gendarmes in the Dolj County, while the barracks gate was defended by machine guns. The access to the hall was allowed only to officers and Siguranță agents, while the journalists were allowed only if they described the debates \"in a reasonable way\".\n\nThe defendants had a team of 20 lawyers from Bucharest led by Lucrețiu Pătrășcanu and Ion Gheorghe Maurer. Pătrășcanu was however required to leave the tribunal, as he had been in the meantime suspended by the Bucharest Bar due to his involvement in the Grivița Strike. Seven foreign lawyers advised the team of lawyers and they also helped to publicize the trial at a European level.\n\nThe Romania media and society followed the trial, with clashes between the communists, who organized rallies for the freeing of Ana Pauker and legionnaire students, who burned the \"Adevărul\" and \"Dimineața\" newspapers, which they saw as \"communist rags\".\n\nThe defense team tried to argue that the defendants were not against the Romanian state, but only that only against the way of organization of the country. They also argued that ideas should be fought with words, not through the justice system.\n\nThe three leaders of the Communist Party, including Ana Pauker, were found guilty and received the maximum penalty: 20 years in prison and a fine of 100,000 lei. The other communists received between 5 and 9 years in prison. The penalties totaled at 155 years in prison, 190 years of correctional interdictions and 5 million lei in fines.\n"}
{"id": "38585538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38585538", "title": "2013 United Nations Climate Change Conference", "text": "2013 United Nations Climate Change Conference\n\nThe United Nations Climate Change Conference, COP19 or CMP9 was held in Warsaw, Poland from 11 to 23 November 2013. This is the 19th yearly session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 19) to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the 9th session of the Meeting of the Parties (CMP 9) to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The conference delegates continue the negotiations towards a global climate agreement. UNFCCC's Executive Secretary Christiana Figueres and Poland's Minister of the Environment Marcin Korolec led the negotiations.\n\nThe conference led to an agreement that all states would start cutting emissions as soon as possible, but preferably by the first quarter of 2015. The Warsaw Mechanism was also proposed.\n\nSeveral preliminary and actual agreements were at the forefront of the talks, including: unused credits from phase one of the Kyoto Protocol, improvements to several UNFCCC action mechanisms, and a refinement of the measurement, reporting, and verification of greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs). Delegates are to focus on the potential conditions of a final global climate change agreement expected to be ratified in 2015 at the Paris Conference. \n\nThe location of UNFCCC talks are rotated by regions throughout United Nations countries. In 2013 Warsaw, the capital and largest city in Poland, was chosen to represent the Eastern European Group in the COP 19 Presidency. \n\nThe choice of Poland has been criticised by environmental organizations, including Greenpeace, because of the country's lack of commitment to reduce its use of fossil fuels and increase use of renewable energy. As of 2013, 88% of Poland's electricity is sourced from coal, as compared to the global average of 68% electricity from fossil fuels. Its officials have been blocking EU proposals to more effectively act against global warming. Standing alone against the other EU member states, in 2011 Poland blocked the proposed emission targets for 2050, and its environment minister Marcin Korolec (president of the conference) declared himself sceptical about the EU's strategy of leading by example. \n\nOver 10,000 participants from 189 countries registered to attend the conference, but only 134 ministers announced participation. Four countries that are among the most vulnerable to climate change were represented by their president or prime minister: Tuvalu, Nauru, Ethiopia and Tanzania. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk dismissed Korolec in preference for a politician who would be better able to deliver a \"radical acceleration of shale gas operations\" in the country. However, he said that Korolec would remain the government's plenipotentiary for the conference.\n\nThe overarching goal of the conference is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius above current levels. According to the Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC, Christiana Figueres,\n\nClean energy, and specifically the financing and technology transfer of renewables in developing countries, will be of main importance during the conference. The Indian Minister of the Environment stated before the talks that “the most important milestone would be climate finance and capitalisation of the Green Climate Fund (GCF), which has not happened at all... Developed countries that made a commitment earlier have now started talking of alternative sources of funding - whereas in our view these are commitments of the parties to the COP.” Agreements in the Copenhagen round ostensibly formalized $US 100 billion to the Clean Energy Fund by 2020 to assist developing countries in energy development, whereas only $US 7.5 million had been committed as of June 2013. Australia has support from Britain and others to head off demands for compensation payments to countries hit by damage they blame on climate change, sparking anger at a global summit meant to strike a deal this weekend. Acting on Tony Abbott’s edict to avoid any new financial commitments, Australian negotiators have held out against calls to support the “loss and damage” payments sought by poorer countries\n\nTechnology transfer and sharing of intellectual property between industrialised and developing countries will be a major concern in the Warsaw talks. Historically, these discussions have been stalled due to disagreements over the price and sharing mechanisms surrounding intellectual property, and thus new approaches are expected in the Warsaw conference. \n\nA stalemate surrounding the talks has been the insistence of the United States delegates on China and India conforming to binding reduction commitments - whereas Chinese and Indian delegates argue that funding from industrialised countries is needed before such emissions cuts can be executed without impacting GDP growth rates. India and Saudi Arabia blocked an agreement which could prevent the release of up to 100 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions by 2050. A key paragraph in a draft resolution that would have accelerated international cooperation under the Montreal Protocol was reportedly deleted at the last minute.\n\nThe deaths, injuries and destruction caused by Typhoon Haiyan were brought to attention during the opening day talks. In response to the typhoon and to climate change damage in general, Naderev \"Yeb\" Saño, the lead negotiator of the Philippines delegation, received a standing ovation for announcing:\nOn 21 November, the first Cities and Sub-national Dialogue took place. This consisted of selected ministers, mayors and sub-national leaders and civil society representatives discussing mitigation and adaptation at a local scale.\n\nThe G77 and China bloc led 132 poor countries in a walk out during talks about “loss and damage” compensation for the consequences of global warming. Poor countries have demanded that the developed world give them $100 billion annually by 2020.\nActivists and poor countries accused Australian diplomats of not taking the talks seriously. The country did not send high-ranking officials to the UN summit, saying that they would be busy repealing the country’s contentious carbon tax. \"The carbon tax is bad for the economy and it doesn’t do any good for the environment,\" Prime Minister Tony Abbott told The Washington Post. \"Despite a carbon tax of $37 a ton by 2020, Australia’s domestic emissions were going up, not down. The carbon tax was basically socialism masquerading as environmentalism, and that’s why it’s going to get abolished.\"\n\nOn the last day of the conference WWF, Oxfam, ActionAid, the International Trade Union Confederation, Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace walked out of the conference. Greenpeace spokesman Gregor Kessler, however, said that they would not leave the city but would \"follow the discussions from the outside. We will not be part of the internal discussions.\" Oxfam' Executive Director Winnie Byanyima said: \"[Governments] must...come back in 2014 ready for meaningful discussions on how they will deliver their share of the emissions reductions which scientists say are needed and their share of the money needed to help the poorest and most vulnerable countries adapt.\" All six issued a statement that read: \"Organisations and movements representing people from every corner of the Earth have decided that the best use of our time is to voluntarily withdraw from the Warsaw climate talks. The Warsaw climate conference, which should have been an important step in the just transition to a sustainable future, is on track to deliver virtually nothing.\"\n\nThe conference ran beyond the scheduled end date of 22 November by a day before some consensus was reached. Member states agreed to work towards curbing emissions as soon as possible, with an idea date targeted at the first quarter of 2015.\n\nTalk however continued on the aid that developed countries would pay to help emissions cuts by developing countries. Having previously promised US$100 billion a year after 2020 from the US$10 billion a year between 2010-2012, they resisted calls to set targets for the rest of the decade. The draft resolution of the conference, though, only mentioned setting \"increasing levels\" of aid. Further the Warsaw Mechanism was proposed, which would provide expertise, and possibly aid, to developing nations to cope with loss and damage from such natural extremities as heatwaves, droughts and floods and threats such as rising sea levels and desertification.\n\nThe organizers of COP19 were strongly criticised for posting comments in an online blog in the lead-up to the conference about the purported advantages of ice melting in the Arctic, stating that \"we may build new drilling platforms and retrieve natural resources hidden below the sea bed\", as well as \"chasing the pirates, terrorists and ecologists that will come to hang around\". The bloggers subsequently responded: \"Our recent entry on north-west passage was widely discussed but unfortunately misunderstood. The readers considered the forthcoming, bitter, but unfortunately possible scenario as [an] option we like. We do not. But how to react to the featured situation? Should we be silent? We are glad, that the topic caused so much interest and discussion, because the matter is really very serious.\" \n\nOrganizers from the Ministry of the Economy in Poland were also strongly criticised for co-hosting an event with the World Coal Association alongside the UNFCCC talks. This has been seen as a provocation against changing the energy source mix in Poland.\n\nThe dismissal of the conference president Marcin Korolec from his cabinet position as minister of environmental during the negotiations has been seen by delegates as a further sign of Poland's lack of commitment to progress global action on global warming. Prime minister Donald Tusk stated that the dismissal had to do with the need for \"radical acceleration of shale gas operations\".\n\nThe International Energy Agency has continually urged industrialised countries to reduce fossil fuel subsidies. It is expected that these subsidy actions will not be addressed. \nSeveral countries attending the COP 19 have been criticised for poor performance on stated environmental pollution targets. While the United States reduced its emissions of in 2012 by 11.8 percent compared to 2005, the largest reduction of any country, others have not done so well.\n\n"}
{"id": "46759966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46759966", "title": "2015 Democratic Alliance Federal Congress", "text": "2015 Democratic Alliance Federal Congress\n\nThe Democratic Alliance held its 6th Federal Congress in Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape from 9 May to 10 May 2015. After incumbent leader Helen Zille announced she would not seek reelection, the congress became focused on the contest to succeed her.\n\nWhen the nominations deadline had passed, four candidates for the leadership had been put forward: Federal Chairperson Wilmot James, Parliamentary Leader Mmusi Maimane, Adrian Naidoo, and Morgan Oliphant\n\nIn the month leading to the vote, the two leading candidates, James and Maimane, traded barbs over issues such party democracy, transparency, and who would be most successful in challenging the ruling African National Congress. The two candidates addressed the provincial party congress in KwaZulu-Natal where James challenged Mamaine to a series of debates.\n\nContinuing his criticism of Maimane's commitment to intra-party democracy and transparency, James released his list of donors in the last week of the campaign and called on his rival to do the same.\n\nOn May 10, following a vote by party delegates, outgoing leader Helen Zille declared Mamaine as the duly elected leader of the Democratic Alliance. 93% of delegates voted in the leadership race. According to his campaign, Maimane won with 90% of the vote.\n\nHe is the first black South African to lead the party.\n\nEastern Cape DA Leader Athol Trollip was elected as Federal Chairperson.\n\nJames Selfe was reelected unopposed as chair of the federal council. Alf Lees was elected federal finance chair. Thomas Walters was elected deputy chair of the federal council. Ivan Meyer, Refiloe Ntsekhem and Desiree van der Walt were elected as first, second, and third deputy chairs respectively.\n"}
{"id": "45522933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45522933", "title": "2015 Sejong and Hwaseong shootings", "text": "2015 Sejong and Hwaseong shootings\n\nThe 2015 Sejong and Hwaseong shootings were two separate shooting incidents that occurred in South Korea on 25 and 27 February 2015 in the cities of Sejong and Hwaseong, respectively. After each shooting, the gunmen committed suicide.\n\nBoth incidents led South Korea to immediate adoption of GPS monitoring of firearms. Since the rarity of shooting incidents in South Korea are evident, they garner international news coverage; the two unrelated spree shootings were widely reported as was the adoption of the gun control measure.\n\nAt 8 a.m. in the morning of 25 February (23:00 GMT Tuesday), in Sejong, South Korea's administrative capital, a gunman shot and killed three people at a convenience store, then committed suicide at another location. The three victims were the gunman's ex-girlfriend's father, brother, and current boyfriend. Keeping a gun in the home in South Korea is restricted; the shooter checked out two shotguns from a police precinct two hours before.\n\nOn 27 February, another shooting occurred in Hwaseong, Gyeonggi, South Korea, where an elderly man shot and killed three people—his brother, his sister-in-law, and a policeman—and injured another police officer before committing suicide. He had checked out a hunting rifle at a police station before driving to his brother's house. A niece of the gunman was injured jumping from a second-story window to escape.\n\nThe incident caused South Korea's Yonhap News Agency to criticize the nation's gun control regulations for hunting weapons, and led immediately to gun control regulation changes. On March 2, the first business day following the Friday incident, South Korea's National Emergency Management Agency, its National Police Agency, and the ruling Saenuri Party agreed to require GPS monitoring of guns in the nation.\n"}
{"id": "9494199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9494199", "title": "Administrative Council", "text": "Administrative Council\n\nAdministrative Council () was a part of Council of State of the Congress Poland. Introduced by the Constitution of the Kingdom of Poland in 1815, it was composed of 5 ministers, special nominees of the King and the Namestnik of the Kingdom of Poland. The Council executed King's will, ruled in the cases outside the ministers competence and prepared projects for the Council of State.\n\nThe Council decided to revolt during the November Uprising in 1830 against Tsar Nicholas I, and transformed itself into governing Executive Commission.\n\nThe Council was reformed after the death of namestnik Józef Zajączek in 1826, after the fall of November Uprising in 1831, after the liquidation of Council of State in 1841, after the reforms of Aleksander Wielopolski in 1863 and after the fall of January Uprising. It was liquidated on 15 June 1867.\n\nThe Council was reformed:\n\n"}
{"id": "24764487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24764487", "title": "Batavianization", "text": "Batavianization\n\nBatavianization or Batavianisation (see -ise vs -ize) also known as Dutchification and; historically, as Belgianization, is the spread of the Dutch language, people and/or culture either by force or assimilation. In Dutch it is known as \"vernederlandsing\" or \"neerlandisatie\".\n\nThe term \"Batavianization\", derives its name from the Batavi, a Germanic tribe living in the Netherlands, and long regarded as the mythical ancestors of the Dutch people. The term \"Dutchification\" is mostly used in English publications by Dutch authors, less so by native English-speakers. This likely has to do with the fact that \"Dutch\" isn't a Latin-derived term and hence sounds somewhat childish to some ears in combination with the (Latinate) suffix \"-fication\". As for \"Belgianization\", \"Belgae\" was the standard term in Latin to refer to the Dutch (compare the Leo Belgicus, United Belgian States and Belgic Confession for example) in the Late Middle Ages. After the establishment of Belgium, its use generally shifted to mean Belgicism.\n\nIn the Netherlands, most of the Batavianization was of a linguistic and, to a lesser extent cultural nature, and was focused on the Frisian region. Beginning at the end of the migration period, Dutch nobles sought to conquer the Frisian lands, in which they largely succeeded around the end of the High Middle Ages. The conquest was gradual and moved from the West to the East. By the time the Frisian heartland (the modern province of Friesland) was conquered, many Frisians formerly living in West Frisia had already fled and the region was subsequently colonized by Dutch settlers. In the remaining Frisian territory, a ruling Dutch upper class was instituted, the legacy of which can still be found in Stadsfries. The West Frisian language has since adopted large amounts of Dutch vocabulary, to such an extent that many objects or concepts originating after the Dutch conquest are nearly all calques or loanwords from Dutch.\n\nDespite Batavianization and the general idea that Frisians were underdeveloped and rural, Frisians never were the subject of ethnic discrimination or willful linguistic or cultural oppression.\n\nBetween the 1950s and early 1980s, primarily due to migration of rural West Frisian speakers to the non-West Frisian urban areas, and the settling of Dutch speakers from outside the province in the Frisian countryside, the percentage of inhabitants of Friesland using West Frisian as their home language dropped from 71% to 59%. The West Frisian language itself gradually dutchified as well.\n\nA 2016 Radboud University Nijmegen study by linguist Geert Driessen showed that the percentage of West Frisian speakers steadily declined between 1994 and 2014 in favour of Dutch. During those twenty years, the number of West Frisian-speaking children within families decreased from 48% to 32%, and outside families (amongst their friends) from 44% to 22%. The percentage of parents talking West Frisian amongst themselves dropped from 58% to 35%. According to Driessen, 'in two generations, there won't be much left', because people will no longer be able to read and especially write in West Frisian. The Dutch language would hang on for a few generations longer than West Frisian, but Driessen expects 'everything to switch to English.'\n\nIn Belgium, batavianization was an essential part of the political objectives of the Flemish movement, a social movement seeking acknowledgement of the Dutch language and culture. When Belgium was established in 1830, the Francophone government oppressed the Dutch populace. Dutch was banned from higher education, politics and justice in favour of French. Hence Batavianization in Belgium largely refers to the process of replacing French as the language of education in universities and as the language of culture among the elite.\n\nIn the toponymy of New Netherland, a 17th-century province in North America, Batavianization is seen in many place names based in Delaware languages.\n\nFor the concept of \"Batavianization\" in colonial North America, see:\nAlso:\n\nFor the concept of \"Batavianization\" in colonial Dutch East Indies, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "22749405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22749405", "title": "Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries", "text": "Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries\n\nThe Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries ( or abbreviated as ) was the first political campaign launched by the People's Republic of China designed to eradicate opposition elements, especially former Kuomintang (KMT) functionaries accused of trying to undermine the new Communist government. It began on March 1950 when the Chinese Communist central committee issued the \"Directive on elimination of bandits and establishment of revolutionary new order\" ().\n\nThe campaign was implemented as a response to the rebellions that were commonplace in the early years of the People's Republic of China. Those targeted during the campaign in were thereafter labeled as \"counterrevolutionaries\", and were publicly denounced in mass trials. Significant numbers of \"counterrevolutionaries\" were arrested and executed and even more sentenced to \"labor reform\" ().\n\nProfessor Yang Kuisong noted the strong resistance against the Communist government during the early days of the People's Republic of China, mostly from remnants of the KMT. According to Chinese state media, after the victory of the CCP in the Chinese Civil War, remnants of the Kuomintang continued to gather intelligence, conduct sabotage, destroy transportation links, loot supplies, and entice armed rebellion through bandits and secret agents.\n\nAccording to Chinese historians, between January and October 1950, there were over 800 counter-revolutionary riots nationwide, and that more than 40,000 political activists and masses of cadres were killed as a result. The government alleged that in Guangxi Province alone, counter-revolutionaries burned and destroyed more than 25,000 buildings and robbed over 200,000 head of cattle.\n\nIn March 1950, the CCP Central Committee issued \"Counter-Revolutionary Activities and instructions for Repression.\" Starting from December 1950, the large-scale suppression of the counter-revolutionary movement was carried out. The official focus of the campaign were bandits (such as Guan Fei), as well as counter-revolutionary underground bands.\n\nIn March 1950, Liu Shaoqi, who was then in charge of the Central Committee, had issued a \"Directive on elimination of bandits and establishment of revolutionary new order\", ordering the Public Security Department (公安局) to list all the Kuomintang members, and stressed that whoever was opposing the rule of CPC must be heavily suppressed and punished. As a result, numerous former KMT members were forced to register and identify themselves, and were promised leniency as a result.\n\nHowever, this initiative was criticized for being too lenient by many government officials, who called for harsher measures. In particular, Peng Zhen argued that KMT agents took advantage of the policy to stage further attacks. \"Having corrected a tendency of wanton beating and killing, our lenient policies in many places have deviated towards another mistake of lenience without bounds, lenience to an extent that has demoralized ourselves and emboldened the bandits and enemy agents ... that has swollen the enemy’s arrogance and alienated the people.\"\n\nYang noted that while Mao did not initially respond to the calls, his attitude changed following the outbreak of the Korean War. On October 10, 1950, Mao issued a new \"Directive on suppression of counterrevolutionary activities\", also known as the \"Double-ten Directive\", initiating a large scale suppression of counterrevolutionaries, and personally oversaw the operations.\n\nYang noted that the timeframe of the Korean War and the land reform campaign provided a short opportunity to initiate the campaign successfully, provided that it was implemented with care.\nMao's decision to initiate the campaign was highlighted in a conversation with Luo Ruiqing, then Minister of public security, \"[We] must not miss this opportunity. Probably this is our only operation for suppressing counterrevolutionaries. This will not happen again in the future and therefore is a golden opportunity. Full advantage of this asset must be taken. The purpose is not just to kill several counterrevolutionaries. More importantly, this [campaign] is for mass mobilization.\"\n\nYang also noted Liu Shaoqi's explanation on why the war in Korea facilitated the suppression of counterrevolutionaries, \"Once the gongs and drums of resisting the United States and assisting Korea begin to make a deafening sound, the gongs and drums of the land reform and suppression of counter-revolutionaries become barely audible, and the latter becomes much easier to implement. Without the loud gongs and drums of resisting the United States and assisting Korea, those of the land reform (and zhenfan) would make unbearable noise. Here a landlord is killed and there another is beaten; there would be fuss everywhere. Things would then become difficult.\" Yang argued that the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries was initiated in parallel with the Chinese entrance to the Korean War as a means of establishing its political authority amongst the Chinese populace via promoting patriotism and suppressing opposition elements.\n\nThe Double-ten Directive stressed on the \"educational\" effects of the campaign, and cases of execution were publicized by the newspapers to inform the masses. However, following the implementation of the campaign, Liu Shaoqi became concerned that the campaign could become too excessive. He stated, \"If every execution is to appear on the newspapers, then there would be too much of the news on execution. I am afraid there would be side effects, like someone might begin to show suspicion on us being 'kill too many' or 'overreact'\", arguing that the campaign should be moderated to avoid creating a negative image of the CCP.\n\nYang noted that initially, Mao agreed with Liu's suggestions, criticizing the \"tactless\" and \"indiscriminate\" purges in various provinces, which created an \"excessively nervous atmosphere\". Furthermore, Mao argued that \"If our cadres do not have a clear idea about this and stick strictly to it, opportunities will be created for counterrevolutionaries, democratic personages will become discontent, and the people will not support us. Then our Party may fall into a difficult situation.\" As a result, many provinces ceased the executions in accordance.\n\nHowever, by January 1951, while the Chinese won major battles in the Korean War and public support at home began to rise, Mao became dissatisfied by the progress of the campaign. He argued that the power base of the former landlords and KMT officials had not been broken as a result of leniency, and that further executions are a necessary step. Mao stated, \"If we are irresolute and tolerant to this evil, we will ... alienate the people\", proposing that further executions should be carried out in areas with large concentration of bandits, \"As long as we do not kill the wrong people\". On 21 January 1951, Mao sent a telegram to party members in Shanghai: \"In a big city like Shanghai, probably it will take one to two thousand executions during this year to solve the problem. In the spring, three to five hundred executions will be needed to suppress the enemy’s arrogance and enhance the people’s morale. In Nanjing, the East China Bureau should direct the party’s municipality committee ... and strive to execute one to two hundred of the most important reactionaries in the spring.\" A day later, 22 January 1951, Mao told the communists in Guangdong: \"It is very good that you have already killed more than 3,700. Another three to four thousand should be killed ... the target for this year’s executions may be eight or nine thousand.\"\n\nYang noted that Mao implemented a quota for the executions in accordance with local populations. Mao argued that hardline counterrevolutionaries counted for less than 1 percent of the population in all regions, and that roughly 0.1 per cent of the population would have to be executed in order to get rid of the worst counterrevolutionary elements, while avoiding killing innocents. However, in reality, many provinces did not have enough counterrevolutionaries to meet the quota, and lacked the facilities to implement the mass arrests. As a result, many people were arrested recklessly based on assumptions, and many cases were decided without thorough examination.\n\nOn February 21, 1951, the \"Regulations of the People’s Republic of China on punishment of counterrevolutionaries\" was issued, which sets out the various \"counterrevolutionary\" crimes, including \"collaborating with imperialism\", \"bribing government officials\", \"participating in armed rebellion\", \"participating in spying or espionage\", and \"looting and sabotage\". Death penalties or life imprisonment would be given depending on the seriousness of the crime. Later on, the charges of \"local tyrants\", and \"historical counterrevolutionaries\" who had incurred \"blood debts\", were added.\n\nHowever, the charges were known for their vagueness and lack of concrete criteria, and many people were executed simply because of accusations or association with the former KMT government. In despite of this, by March 1951, many large cities implemented the campaign upon the urgings of Mao. Mao argued that as long as the campaign targeted despised figures of society, the mass populace would be incited to support the campaign. Though he initially wanted to avoid inviting people outside the party, Mao's predictions was correct. Much of the trials of accused counterrevolutionaries had popular turnout, being heavily advertised on radio, and many of the invited civilians participated in the trials themselves. Jung Chang noted that in Beijing alone there were some 30,000 rallies attended by over 3 million people, and in one such rally, 200 people were paraded and executed with their blood splattering out on bystanders, and trucks carrying blood-stained corpses drove through the streets.\n\nBy late 1951, the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries was briefly superseded by the Three-anti/five-anti campaigns, but continued until August 1952.\n\nAs the Chinese Communist Party first major political campaign, the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries was ultimately successful in eradicating bands of KMT underground forces. As a result, the various KMT sponsored assassination and sabotage campaigns, which once posed a large threat to CCP authorities, was greatly reduced. Yang noted the suppressions successfully destroyed KMT's hopes of retaking mainland China, as well as achieving the goal of mass mobilization by inciting popular support of party policies.\n\nThe campaign highlighted Mao's beliefs of class struggle through the revolutionary class. The ensuing repression and mass executions also paved the way for a subsequent series campaigns against class enemies, such as the Anti-Rightist Movement and the Cultural Revolution that resulted in failure and more tragedies. In particular, it also led to the implementation of quotas in further CCP campaigns, which were assigned to local officials as a means of indicating the results of such campaigns. Yang argued that such measures later proved to be counterproductive and led to excesses.\n\nYang also noted the large amount of wrongly convicted cases, which he attributed to the vagueness of the regulations, attempts by local officials to please superiors, lack of law enforcement in local government, personal grievances, and irrational crowds. In 1953, Xinhua News Agency investigated the claims, finding that in various provinces, many of the accused counterrevolutionaries were falsely labelled because of local disputes, and many local officials used the campaign to rid themselves of political rivals. Furthermore, large number of former KMT personnel were targeted. Despite assurances by the CCP during the Chinese Civil War that surrendering KMT troops would be forgiven for their past associations, many of them were nevertheless targeted by local officials to meet quotas. Following the subsequent investigations, around 150,000 former KMT personnel across the country had their 'counterrevolutionary' label removed.\n\nBenjamin Valentino noted that years after the conclusion of the campaign, Mao admitted that some people were \"unjustly killed,\" but insisted that \"basically there were no errors; that group of people should have been killed ... if they had not been killed the people would not have been able to raise their heads.\" Valentino argued that the biggest concern of the CPC during the campaigns was to urge local cadre to \"not fear executing people only to fear mistakenly executing people\" and to punish those who were too lenient and practiced \"peaceful land reform\".\n\nFigures vary on the total number of death as a result of the campaign. Yang Kuisong notes that while the official estimates say 712,000 were executed the actual number is likely much higher, while Li Changyu puts the figure at 2 million Most of the killed were former Kuomintang officials, businessmen, former employees of Western companies and intellectuals whose loyalty was suspect. When the killings of rural landlords that occurred during land reform, which overlapped the counterrevolutionary campaign, are included, the estimates then range from 2 million to 5 million executions for the years 1949-1953, along with 1.5 million people, to 6 million, being sent to \"reform through labour\" camps where many perished. Philip Short noted that such estimates exclude the hundreds of thousands driven to suicide during \"struggle sessions\" of the three-anti/five-anti campaigns, which also occurred around the same time.\n\nThe large number of deaths did not go unnoticed by local officials. Yang Kuisong noted that by May 1951, many provinces had called for a halt to the mass executions, but the killings had in fact increased due to acceptance of the suppression campaign as a means of settling local grievances. Mao also became concerned with the excessive executions, and suggested for the executions to be reduced to 0.05 percent, with a limit of 0.1 percent, while that the rest of the accused criminals can be sentenced to life imprisonment or hard labor instead. Mao stated, \"If we have such people executed, it will not be easily understood by the masses, nor will public figures be sympathetic; furthermore we would be deprived of a large pool of labor, and it would serve little use in dividing the enemy.\" \n\nAccording to , the harshness of the official prison system reached unprecedented levels, and the mortality rate until 1952 was \"certainly in excess\" of 5 percent per year, and reached 50 percent during six months in Guangxi. In Shanxi, more than 300 people died per day in one mine. Torture was commonplace and the suppression of revolts, which were quite numerous, resulted in \"veritable massacres.\" One Chinese priest died after being interrogated for over 100 hours. Of the 20,000 inmates who worked in the oilfields of Yanchang, several thousand were executed.\n\nBy May 1951, the CCP Central Committee had issued a directive calling for a stop to the killings, giving the power of arrest and execution back to the central government. Furthermore, it clarified the procedures of dealing with accused counterrevolutionaries, as well as limiting the execution of death penalties to those with 'blood debts' or to have 'committed serious crimes'. Others who had received death penalties would have their sentences commuted by two years of manual labor, with their performance assessed as to determine whether the sentence would still be necessary. Despite the directive, while mass arrests and executions subsided in some regions, they still continued, albeit with much more secrecy.\n\nSufan was another purge campaign. The targets of Sufan directives were the communists, government bureaucrats, and the military personnel, where as Zhen Fan mainly targeted former Kuomintang personnel. Estimates of the number of victims of Sufan range widely; Jean-Louis Margolin writes in \"The Black Book of Communism\" that one source indicates 81,000 arrests during the campaign (which he claims is rather modest), while another gives 770,000 deaths. He concludes that there is no way to determine which is accurate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54689553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54689553", "title": "Caviar diplomacy", "text": "Caviar diplomacy\n\nCaviar diplomacy is the lobbying strategy of Azerbaijan, consisting of costly invitations of foreign politicians and employees of international organizations to Azerbaijan at the expense of the host country. Caviar Diplomacy also includes expensive gifts presented as “a tribute to the Eastern tradition.”\n\nThe term “caviar diplomacy” was first used in 2012, in a report by the European Stability Initiative (ESI) – “Caviar Diplomacy – How Azerbaijan silenced the Council of Europe”. It was noted in the report that this term is being used in informal conversations of Azerbaijani officials to describe generous gifts to foreign politicians.\n\nAccording to the sources of the European Stability Initiative, Azerbaijan has a group of 10-12 friends in PACE and 3-4 people in the secretariat who receive at least half a kilogram of black caviar (the price on the market is more than 1300 euros per kilogram) as a gift four times a year. Many deputies are invited to Baku and during their visits receive, alongside the caviar, numerous other gifts including: expensive silk carpets, gold and silver items, drinks, caviar and money. In Baku, a common gift is 2 kg of caviar. According to the ESI, outside of PACE, there is no doubt about the situation with democracy in Azerbaijan, which is characterized as semi-authoritarian even by its biggest supporters. Nevertheless, despite the fact that there were no opposition parties elected to the Azerbaijani parliament in 2010, the head of the PACE mission stated that the elections corresponded to international standards. According to the ESI, this can be explained only by “caviar diplomacy”.\nThe ESI cited an example of PACE discussions in its report, when Azerbaijan was publicly supported by its frequent visitors – British Liberal Democrat Michael Hancock and former Foreign Minister of Estonia Cristina Oyuland, who, despite the obvious regression in human rights situation in Azerbaijan, the lack of free elections, as well as criticism from international human rights organizations, stated that there are no serious problems in Azerbaijan. The ESI also added to the list of “friends of Azerbaijan” the Belgian Paul Vitte, from Bavaria, Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu from Turkey, Robert Walter from Britain, and a number of Russian representatives.\n\nDuring the 2008 presidential elections, PACE observers included a large group of frankly pro-Azerbaijani MPs. The variant of the statement on elections, prepared by the head of the group of observers Andreas Herkel, containing critical remarks, faced the rejection of the pro-Azerbaijani group consisting of Michael Hancock, Eduard Lintner and Paul Ville. Herkel was forced to declare his resignation if criticism did not go into the statement. During the referendum, which lifted the limits on the number of presidential terms for Ilham Aliyev, four PACE deputies – Eduard Litner, Paul Ville, Khaki Keskin and Pedro Agramunt evaluated the referendum as the progress of democracy.\n\nIn addition to PACE representatives, observers from the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE (ODIHR) who have extensive experience of such observations, which revealed numerous violations of the procedure, which exclude the possibility of choice, were also present at the 2010 parliamentary elections. During the meetings of European observers, attended by PACE representatives in the person of Paul Ville and Pole Tadeusz Ivinski, the head of ODIHR observers, Audrey Glover from Great Britain, noted numerous violations that were not contested by PACE representatives. Nevertheless, the preliminary result of PACE monitoring, presented by Paul Ville, noted the compliance of preparations for elections with international standards, as well as transparent and effective work of the organizers. During the election, ODIHR observers recorded multiple violations and unprecedented ballot stuffing. By the closing of polling stations, the elections were assessed by the ODIHR as probably the most fraudulent they monitored. However, speaking on Azerbaijani television, Paul Ville stated that the elections were democratic and that he did not know about any violations. The ODIHR, in turn, subjected the elections to sharp criticism.\n\nWhen asked if bribes were given to observers, Glover replied that she had not personally received it. After returning from Baku, representative of the PACE group Wolfgang Grosruck accused Audrey Glovek of being “unreliable”, unprofessional, and also of not speaking out in defense of PACE representatives when the questions about bribes were asked. The ODIHR report published in January 2011 contained extremely critical assessments of the 2010 elections.\n\nInvestigations of the ESI have received resonance in Russian and international media: \"EU Observer\", \"Politiken\", DK, Radio Sarajevo, BBC, \"Der Tagesspiegel\", Africa Intelligence, \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\", \"The Guardian\" and others.\n\nOn October 9, 2013, Ilham Aliyev was elected Azerbaijan’s president for the third time. Observers from the OSCE / ODIHR, led by Tana de Zulueta, spoke of restrictions on freedom of speech during elections, while representatives of the European Parliament headed by Pino Arlacchi confirmed free and fair elections. The European Parliament and PACE issued a joint statement in which they highly appraised the elections. A group of observers from the US House of Representatives also acknowledged fair elections.\n\nVarying estimates of the elections led to a scandal. On October 11, the representative of the European Union, Catherine Ashton and European Commissioner Stefan Fule, ignored the assessment of the European Parliament, including in its statement the results of the ODIHR. The Commission on Foreign Relations of the EU discussed the report of Arlacchi. During the discussion, representatives of the “green” condemned the report and said that it discredited the European Parliament. The head of the Socialists’ faction in the EU said that the PACE report cannot be considered reliable at all. It later emerged that a number of EU representatives traveled to Azerbaijan unofficially and on the dime of Azerbaijani organizations, which was regarded by the “European Voice” as “stupidity or corruption”, these trips were labeled “electoral tourism”.\n\nThe US State Department in its turn discredited the observers from the House of Representatives, describing the elections as not meeting international standards, and expressing solidarity with the ODIHR's assessment.\n\nIn 2015, during the discussion of the resolution on political prisoners in the European Parliament, the text written by the pro-Azerbaijani rapporteurs initially contained almost no criticism, but as a result, a resolution was adopted calling for Azerbaijan to stop repression of human rights defenders, revising the law on non-governmental organizations, not putting pressure on journalists and there was also a threat of sanctions. According to the German deputy Frank Schwab, this was a turning point for Azerbaijan's “caviar diplomacy”.\n\nOn September 10, 2015, the European Parliament adopted a resolution in which Azerbaijan was condemned for “unprecedented repression”. The resolution also called on the European authorities to conduct a thorough investigation of allegations of corruption against President Aliyev and his family members, and to consider imposing targeted sanctions against officials related to the persecution.\n\nIn June 2016, the Milan prosecutor's office brought charges of corruption and money laundering to Luca Volonte, the former head of the European People's Party faction in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. According to the Prosecutor's Office Volonte received €2.39 million for the support of Azerbaijani officials. Volonte’s lawyers called these accusations absolutely groundless. According to the second ESI report – “Caviar Diplomacy. Part 2”, published in December 2016, Volonte agreed to cooperate with the investigation and named many European politicians who have been lobbying for the interests of the Azerbaijani authorities. During the interrogations Volonte confirmed receiving €2.39 million for lobbying in favor of Azerbaijan. According to the ESI, the money went to bribing Italian and other politicians who voted against PACE resolutions and reports condemning human rights violations in Azerbaijan. In the documentary film shown on Italian television, Volonte also confirmed the receipt of €2.39 million, arguing that this money was transferred from a member of the Azerbaijani delegation to PACE Elkhan Suleymanov for consultations on agriculture. Payments to Volonte went through four British companies, which, according to “The Guardian”, did not conduct any operations in Britain and probably are front companies.\n\nThe Milan prosecutor's office accused Volonte of two episodes: money laundering and accepting bribes. The court of Milan, having considered the second charge, recognized Volonte's immunity for this episode, as according to the Italian constitution, a deputy cannot be prosecuted for his professional activities. Later, the Supreme Court of Italy reversed this decision and returned the case to the Milan Court, citing the fact that the article of the Constitution is not about using his or her position for personal enrichment purposes.\n\nEx-ambassador of Azerbaijan to the European Union Arif Mammadov told “The Guardian” that he spent about 30 million euros for the services of lobbyists as representative of the Azerbaijani delegation to the Council of Europe: “All members of the Azerbaijani delegation knew about this figure, although it never appeared anywhere. It was said, that the money is intended for bribing members of other delegations and the PACE as a whole.” A number of PACE deputies said that they knew about proposals to bribe the European deputies.\n\nElkhan Suleymanov, the representative of Azerbaijan in PACE, is called the “curator” of Volonte and other European deputies. The European press cites examples of how Volonte recalled his requests to the PACE, informing Suleymanov that “your every word is an order for me”. Through the company, from which Volonte received his payments, in total of about one billion euros were conducted. Attempts by Armenian MEPs to raise the issue of corruption in PACE came up against the opposition of PACE President Pedro Agramunt, another subject of investigation of the “caviar diplomacy”, who deprived them of their voice and prevented the investigation. Der Tagesspiegel qualifies this investigation as “the biggest scandal in the history of Europe”. After the publication in the media, Thorbjorn Jagland, Secretary General of the Council of Europe, called on Agramut to personally provide an independent external investigative body without any further delay. Agramunt and the leaders of the five political groups rejected the proposals of the CoE official Wojciech Sawicki, which sets out the conditions for an independent investigation. However, after the visit of Agramunt to Syria, the PACE Bureau expressed to him a vote of no confidence and in fact removed Agramunt from real power, after which in April 2017 the Parliamentary Assembly formed a commission to investigate alleged corruption accusations. Its report has been published in April 2018.\n\nIn April 2017, the Maltese press published documents according to which the top politicians of Malta and the wife of Prime Minister Joseph Muscat received millions of dollars from a bank controlled by Ilham Aliyev's daughter Leila. According to the editorial investigation, Joseph Muscat made a trip to Baku in 2015, after which he called on Europe to give an objective assessment of the positive processes in Azerbaijan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61106", "title": "Chinese unification", "text": "Chinese unification\n\nChinese (re)unification, more specifically Cross-strait (re)unification, is the irredentist concept of Greater China that expresses the goal of unifying the People's Republic of China and Taiwan into a single sovereign state. The term was developed in the 1970s as part of the Chinese Communist Party's strategy to address the \"Taiwan Issue,\" as PRC started to normalize foreign relations with a number of countries including the United States and Japan. In 1979, the People's Congress of China published “” () which included the term \"Chinese unification\" as an ideal for Cross-Strait relations. In 1981, the Chairman of the People's Congress Standing Committee Ye Jianying announced the \"Nine Policies\" for the PRC's stance on the Cross-Strait relations, with \"Chinese Peaceful Unification\" () as the first policy. Ever since then, \"One Country, Two Systems; Chinese Unification\" has been emphasized at every National Congress of the Communist Party as the principles to deal with Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan; \"One Country, Two Systems\" specifically about PRC's policy towards post-colonial Hong Kong and Macao, and \"Chinese Unification\" specifically towards Taiwan.\n\nThe Republic of China was founded in 1912 to govern Mainland China, which the PRC now governs, after defeating the Manchu-led Qing government. At the time, Taiwan was part of the Empire of Japan. In 1945, Japanese forces in Taiwan surrendered to Chiang Kai-shek, the leader of ROC, who was on behalf of the World War II allies. During the last years of the Chinese Civil War (1946-1949), the ROC lost mainland China to the Communist Party of China (CPC), and relocated its government to Taiwan. The CPC established the People's Republic of China on the lost Mainland territory in 1949.\n\nThe PRC government claimed that Taiwan is a \"rebel province\" of the PRC and that recovering the island is a high priority. It established the One-China policy to clarify its intent. The PRC threatened to invade Taiwan should it consider peaceful incorporation not possible.\n\nMost Taiwanese people oppose joining the PRC for various reasons, including fears of the loss of Taiwan's democracy, human rights, Taiwanese nationalism, and enduring pro-Japan sentiment. Opponents either favour maintaining the status quo of Republic of China administrating Taiwan or the pursuit of Taiwanese independence. The ROC Constitution states that its territory includes the mainland, but the official policy of the ROC government is dependent on which coalition is currently in power. The position of the Pan-blue coalition, which comprises the Kuomintang (KMT), the People First Party and the New Party is to eventually incorporate the mainland into the ROC, while the position of Pan-Green Coalition, composed of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) and the Taiwan Solidarity Union, is to pursue Taiwan independence.\n\nTaiwan has a complicated history of being administered by larger foreign powers including the Dutch East India Company, the Southern Ming Dynasty, the Qing dynasty and The Empire of Japan. Taiwan first fell under Chinese control when it was invaded by the Manchu-led Qing dynasty in 1683.\n\nThe island remained under Qing rule until 1895 when it came under the control of the Empire of Japan. Following the Axis power’s defeat in World War II in 1945, the Kuomintang-led Republic of China gained control of Taiwan. Some Taiwanese resisted ROC rule in the years following World War II. The ROC violently suppressed this resistance which culminated in the 228 Massacre of 1947. With the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1950, Taiwan and China were separated from each other with governments on both sides aiming for a military takeover of the other.\n\nThe irredentist narrative emphasizing the importance of a united Greater China Area, which purportedly include Taiwan, arose in both the Chinese Nationalist Party and the Chinese Communist Party in the years during and after the civil war. For the PRC, the claim of the Greater China Area was part of a nationalist argument for territorial integrity. In the civil war years it set the communist movement apart from the ROC, which had lost Manchuria, the homeland of the Qing Emperors, to Japan in 1932.\n\nFrom the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1950 until the mid-1970s the concept of unification was not the main subject of discourse between the governments of the PRC and the ROC. The Kuomintang (KMT) believed that they would, probably with American help, one day retake China, while Mao Zedong's communist regime would collapse in a popular uprising and the Kuomintang forces would be welcomed.\n\nBy the 1970s, the Kuomintang's authoritarian military dictatorship in Taiwan (led by the Chiang family) was becoming increasingly untenable due to the popularity of the Tangwai movement and Taiwanese nationalists. In 1970, then-Vice Premier (and future President) Chiang Ching-kuo survived an assassination attempt in New York City by Cheng Tzu-tsai and Peter Huang, both members of the World United Formosans for Independence. In 1976, Wang Sing-nan sent a mail bomb to then-Governor of Taiwan Province Hsieh Tung-min, who suffered serious injuries to both hands as a result. The Kuomintang's heavy-handed oppression in the Kaohsiung Incident, alleged involvement in the Lin family massacre and the murders of Chen Wen-chen and Henry Liu, and the self-immolation of Cheng Nan-jung galvanized the Taiwanese community into political actions and eventually led to majority rule and democracy in Taiwan.\n\nThe concept of unification replaced the concept of liberation by the PRC in 1979 as it embarked, after Mao's death, on economic reforms and pursued a more pragmatic foreign policy. In Taiwan, the possibility of retaking China became increasingly remote in the 1970s, particularly after Taiwan's expulsion from the United Nations in 1971, the establishment of diplomatic relations between the PRC and United States in 1979, and Chiang Kai-shek's death in 1975.\n\nWith the end of authoritarian rule in the 1980s, there was a shift in power within the KMT away from the faction who had accompanied Chiang to Taiwan. Taiwanese who grew up under Japanese rule, which account for more than 85% of the population, gained more influence and the KMT began to move away from its ideology of cross-strait unification. Martial law was finally lifted in Taiwan on July 15, 1987. Following the Wild Lily student movement, President Lee Teng-hui announced in 1991 that his government no longer disputed the rule of the Communists in China, leading to semi-official peace talks (leading to what would be termed as the \"1992 consensus\") between the two sides. The PRC broke off these talks in 1999 when President Lee described relations with the PRC as \"special state-to-state\".\n\nUntil the mid-1990s, unification supporters on Taiwan were bitterly opposed to the Communist Party. Since the mid-1990s a considerable warming of relations between the Communist Party and Taiwanese unification supporters, as both oppose the pro-Taiwan independence bloc. This brought about the accusation that unification supporters were attempting to sell out Taiwan. They responded saying that closer ties with mainland China, especially economic ties, are in Taiwan's interest.\n\nAfter the ROC Presidential elections of 2000, which brought the independence-leaning Democratic Progressive Party's candidate President Chen Shui-bian to power, the Kuomintang, faced with defections to the People First Party, expelled Lee Teng-hui and his supporters and reoriented the party towards unification. At the same time, the People's Republic of China shifted its efforts at unification away from military threats (which it de-emphasized but did not renounce) towards economic incentives designed to encourage Taiwanese businesses to invest in China and aiming to create a pro-Beijing bloc within the Taiwanese electorate.\n\nWithin Taiwan, unification supporters tend to see \"China\" as a larger cultural entity divided by the Chinese Civil War into separate states or governments within the country. In addition, supporters see Taiwanese identity as one piece of a broader Chinese identity rather than as a separate cultural identity. However, supporters do oppose desinicization inherent in Communist ideology such as that seen during the Cultural Revolution, along with the effort to emphasize a Taiwanese identity as separate from a Chinese one. As of the 2008 election of President Ma Ying-Jeou, the KMT agreed to the One China principle, but defined it as led by the Republic of China rather than the People's Republic of China.\n\nAccording to the 1995 proposal outlined by CPC General secretary and President Jiang Zemin, Taiwan would lose sovereignty and the right to self-determination, but would keep its armed forces and send a representative to be the \"number two leader\" in the PRC central government, in accord with the One China, Two Systems approach adopted for Hong Kong and Macau. Thus, under this proposal, the Republic of China would become fully defunct.\n\nFew Taiwanese are in support of \"One Country, Two Systems\" while some unification supporters argued to uphold the \"status quo\" until mainland China democratized and industrialized to the same level as Taiwan. In the 2000 presidential election, independent candidate James Soong proposed a European Union-style relation with mainland China (this was echoed by Hsu Hsin-liang in 2004) along with a non-aggression pact. In the 2004 presidential election, Lien Chan proposed a confederation-style relationship. Beijing objected to the plan, claiming that Taiwan was already part of the China, and was not a state and therefore could not form a confederation with it.\n\nUnification proposals were not actively floated in Taiwan and the issue remained moot under President Chen Shui-bian, who refused to accept talks under Beijing's pre-conditions. Under the PRC administration of Hu Jintao, incorporating Taiwan lost emphasis amid the reality that the DPP presidency in Taiwan would be held by pro-independence President Chen until 2008. Instead, the emphasis shifted to meetings with politicians who opposed independence.\n\nA series of high-profile visits in 2005 to China by the leaders of the three pan-blue coalition parties was seen as an implicit recognition of the status quo by the PRC government. Notably, Kuomintang chairman Lien Chan's trip was marked by unedited coverage of his speeches and tours (and some added positive commentary) by government-controlled media and meetings with high level officials including Hu Jintao. Similar treatment (though marked with less historical significance and media attention) was given during subsequent visits by PFP chairman James Soong and New Party chairman Yok Mu-ming. The Communists and the Pan-Blue Coalition parties emphasized their common ground in renewed negotiations under the alleged 1992 consensus, opening the three links, and opposing Taiwan's formal independence.\n\nThe PRC passed an Anti-Secession Law shortly before Lien's trip. While the Pan-Green Coalition held mass rallies to protest the codification of using military force to conquer Taiwan, the Pan-Blue Coalition was largely silent. The language of the Anti-Secession Law was clearly directed at the independence supporters in Taiwan (termed \"'Taiwan independence' secessionist forces\" in the law) and designed to be somewhat acceptable to the Pan-Blue Coalition. It did not explicitly declare Taiwan to be part of the People's Republic of China but instead used the term \"China\" on its own, allowing definitional flexibility. It made repeated emphasis of \"promoting peaceful national unification\" but left out the concept of \"one country, two systems\" and called for negotiations in \"steps and phases and with flexible and varied modalities\" in recognition of the concept of eventual rather than immediate incorporation of Taiwan.\n\nBoth under President Chen and President Ma Ying-jeou, the main political changes in cross-straits relationship involved closer economic ties and increased business and personal travel. Such initiatives was met by grassroots oppositions such as the Sunflower Student Movement, which successfully scuttled Cross-Strait Service Trade Agreement in 2014. President Ma Ying-Jeou advocated for the revitalization of Chinese culture, as in the re-introduction of Traditional Chinese in texts to mainland China used in Taiwan and historically in China. It expressed willingness to allow Simplified Chinese to be used for informal writing.\n\nAt the beginning of the millennium, polls consistently found 70% to 80% of all Taiwanese opposed to unification with the People's Republic of China. Public opinion on unification has not changed significantly since then. Also, unification is generally not the deciding issue in Taiwanese political campaigns and elections. A majority of the population is supporting the status quo of in order to avoid a military confrontation with China, but a sizable population supports a name rectification campaign.\n\nImmediate unification is not endorsed by any of the major political parties. The People First Party officially advocates that Taiwan should maintain the status quo. The Kuomintang consistently defends Republic of China's sovereignty and that there is one China, but refer to ROC and not PRC. Although those two parties and the New Party, together forming the pan-blue coalition, are viewed as supporters, in most cases they do so in a traditional sense only. Their main difference with the pan-green coalition is that they believe Taiwan should identify itself culturally with China, and oppose any loss of national identity.\n\nOpponents of \"One country, two systems\" cite its implementation in Hong Kong, where despite promises of high levels of autonomy, the PRC government has gradually increased its control of Hong Kong through influx of people from the mainland, manipulation of elections and control of the media and economy.\n\nThe Taiwanese pro-unification minority has at times been vocal in media and politics. For the 2004 presidential election the unification question gained some attention as different political parties were discussing the issue. A series of demonstrations, some of which organized by pro-unification minorities, gained significant attention.\n\nApart from the political agenda from the Party elites and policy experts, the PRC citizens' views are more multifaceted. Some commentators realize the economic realities that the progress made in Cross-Strait relations, including the Three Links initiatives opening up postal, transportation, and trade connections, has provided opportunities for and mutual benefits in economic development. The progress in cross-strait transportation methods such as railways and ferries has made some coastal residents (e.g. in Fujian) feel that Taiwan became less distant and less exclusive.\n\nIn terms of the political progress of Chinese unification, some have a rational view on PRC's motives as well as the current stagnation in peaceful negotiations or unification progress, pointing out the strategic geographical location of Taiwan: it can strengthen China's military defense line in the South China Sea, and with Taiwan backed up by the United States, mainland may feel threatened and pressured by the U.S.\n\nHowever, many Chinese are concerned by the Taiwanese independent movement (“”), and generally are against it for various reasons. Some are purely ideological, saying that the independence movements are brainwashed radical separatists. Some think it is because of \"face\" that Taiwan would rather sacrifice development to preserve a tough \"face\". The negative sentiments towards Taiwanese independent were exacerbated with the recent election of Tsai Ing-wen, a candidate from the Democratic Progressive Party with a Taiwanese independence agenda. Specially, some noted that one of the ulterior motive of the \"transitional justice\" ideals proposed by Tsai to strengthen the outcomes of democratic reforms is to further the divide and separation from China, thereby worsening China-Taiwan relations. \n\nWith regards to the future of Chinese unification, some have a positive view despite the recognition of deepening cultural and political differences, citing common ancient history, language, ethnicity, and the shared desire of peaceful development as drivers of unification. Some, on the other hand, are not as hopeful and see no progress in the future, as they see the problem as essentially a complex one about foreign relations, especially regarding the power dynamics between China and the U.S., can sustain the stagnation. Some also noted that with the rapid economic development and rising political status of China in the international arena, China is gaining more bargaining power and putting more pressure on Taiwan towards the unification, for example, through diplomatic isolation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "566083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566083", "title": "Coronet", "text": "Coronet\n\nIn English, a coronet is a small crown consisting of ornaments fixed on a metal ring. By one definition, a coronet differs from a crown in that a coronet never has arches, and from a tiara in that a coronet completely encircles the head, while a tiara does not. By a slightly different definition, a crown is worn by an emperor, empress, king or queen; a coronet by a nobleman or lady. See also diadem.\n\nIn other languages, this distinction is not made as usually the same word for \"crown\" is used irrespective of rank (Krone in German, kroon in Dutch, krona in Swedish, couronne in French, etc.)\n\nThe main use is now actually not on the head (indeed, many people entitled to a coronet never have one made; the same even applies to some monarchs' crowns, as in Belgium) but as a rank symbol in heraldry, adorning a coat of arms.\nThe word stems from the Old French \"coronete\", a diminutive of \"co(u)ronne\" (\"crown\"), itself from the Latin \"corona\" (also \"wreath\"), from the Ancient Greek κορώνη (korōnē, \"garland, wreath\").\n\nTraditionally, such headgear is – as indicated by the German equivalent \"Adelskrone\" (literally \"crown of nobility\") – used by nobles and by princes and princesses in their coats of arms, rather than by monarchs, for whom the word crown is customarily reserved in formal English, while many languages have no such terminological distinction. Other than a crown, a coronet shows the rank of the respective noble. Hence, in German and Scandinavian languages there is also the term \"Rangkrone\".\n\nFor equivalents, both physical and emblematic, in other languages and cultures, see under crown (headgear).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a peer wears his or her coronet on one occasion only: for a royal coronation, when it is worn along with coronation robes, equally standardised as a luxurious uniform.\n\nIn the peerages of the United Kingdom, the design of a coronet shows the rank of its owner, as in German, French and various other heraldic traditions. Dukes were the first individuals authorised to wear coronets. Marquesses acquired coronets in the 15th century, earls in the 16th and viscounts and barons in the 17th. Until the barons received coronets in 1661, the coronets of earls, marquesses and dukes were engraved while those of viscounts were plain. After 1661, however, viscomital coronets became engraved, while baronial coronets were plain. Coronets may not bear any precious or semi-precious stones. \n\n\nSince a person entitled to wear a coronet customarily displays it in his or her coat of arms above the shield and below the helm and crest, this can provide a useful clue as to the owner of a given coat of arms. In Canadian heraldry, descendants of the United Empire Loyalists are entitled to use a Loyalist military coronet (for descendants of members of Loyalist regiments) or Loyalist civil coronet (for others) in their arms.\n\nMembers of the British Royal Family often have coronets on their coats of arms, and may wear actual coronets at coronations (e.g., Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret at the 1937 coronation of their father as George VI). They were made, according to regulations made by King Charles II in 1661, shortly after his return from exile in France (getting a taste for its lavish court style; Louis XIV started monumental work at Versailles that year) during the Restoration. They vary depending upon the prince's relationship to the monarch. Occasionally, additional royal warrants vary the designs for individuals. The most recent (and most comprehensive) royal warrant concerning coronets was the 19 November 1917 warrant of George V.\n\nRather than a coronet, the heir apparent receives a crown with a single arch.\n\nThere is evidence to support the wearing of coronets amongst Welsh royalty and nobility, particularly in the Kingdom of Gwynedd. Llywelyn's coronet was for a while kept with the English crown jewels.\n\nAll over the world, Spanish heraldry has used these crowns and coronets:\n\nThis hierarchy among the French nobility, which was identical for non-royal titles to the British hierarchy of peers, should not be understood to be as rigid in the ranking of titleholders as the latter. In particular, title was not a good indication of actual preeminence or precedence: Ancestry, marriages, high office, military rank and the family's historical renown (as documented, e.g., in the \"Honneurs de la Cour\" or in Père Anselme's histories of the nobility) counted far more than the precise title. Some distinguished families held no higher title than count or even baron, but were proud of their ancient origin. Moreover, most of the nobility was legally untitled, some hereditary titles could be acquired by a nobleman who purchased a \"titled\" fief, while \"titres de courtoisie\" were freely assumed in the absence of strict regulation by the French crown and became more numerous than titles legally borne. As an example, the title of Marquis ranks in principle immediately after Duke, but was so ridiculed by the late 18th century (cf. the phrase \"petit marquis\" meaning a presumptuous and vain person) that Napoleon omitted it from his own scale of titles. It should also be noted that, in the 17th and 18th centuries, people assumed and used freely coronets of ranks that they did not have; and, in the 19th and 20th centuries abuse was still made of \"courtesy titles\". Titles continued to be granted until the Second Empire fell in 1870, and legally survive among their descendants.\n\nThe only title that was never usurped under the\" ancien régime\", and rarely without some excuse afterwards, was the title of \"duc\", because it was so often attached to the rank peer of France, which carried specific legal prerogatives such as the right to a seat in the \"Parlement of Paris\". As a result, the title of \"duc\" was actually, as well as nominally, at the top of the scale after the royal family and foreign princes, and a cut above all of the other nobility.\n\nPrince: this was not a title in Old Regime France, but a rank, hence there was no coronet.\n\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire, and consequently its successor states (Austria, Germany and others), had a system very similar to that of the British, although the design varied.\n\nConsidering the religious nature of the Holy Roman Empire, one can say that, except for the short-lived Napoleonic states, no continental secular system of heraldry historically was so neatly regulated as under the British crown. Still, there are often traditions (often connected to the Holy Roman Empire, \"e.g.\", those in Sweden, Denmark or Russia) that include the use of crown and coronets. While most languages do not have a specific term for coronets, but simply use the word meaning \"crown\", it is possible to determine which of those crowns are for peerage or lower-level use, and thus can by analogy be called coronets.\n\nPrecisely because there are many traditions and more variation within some of these, there is a plethora of continental coronet types. Indeed, there are also some coronets for positions that do not exist or entitle one to a coronet in the Commonwealth tradition. Such a case in French (\"ancien\", \"i.e.\", royal era) heraldry, where coronets of rank did not come into use before the 16th century, is the vidame, whose coronet (illustrated) is a metal circle mounted with three visible crosses (there is no documentary or archeological evidence that such a coronet was ever made).\n\nOften, coronets are substituted by helmets, or only worn on a helmet.\n\nThese coronets and crowns were used in Portuguese heraldry:\n\n"}
{"id": "46504539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46504539", "title": "Corporate accountability for human rights violations", "text": "Corporate accountability for human rights violations\n\nHolding corporations accountable for either direct conduct or complicity for human rights violations has become an increasing area of attention in promoting human rights. Multinational corporations in particular have been singled out as important figures, for better or worse, in the maintenance of human rights given their economic status and international dimension. As it currently stands there is no mechanism at the international level which can hold corporations legally accountable. Reliance has instead been placed upon a number of soft law instruments the most important one of which is the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. With the potential exception for redress under the Alien Tort Statute corporations are only legally accountable for human rights violations under the municipal law of the Nation in which the violation is alleged to have occurred or the company is based.\n\nMultinational corporations emerged in the 1990s as one of the most significant challenges to the dominance of states in the social and economic international order. In 2013 37 of the top 100 economies in the world were corporations, with Wal-Mart Stores annual revenue exceeding the GDP of all but the top 27 states in the world. As a result, there have been increasing concerns over the role multinationals have in promoting and protecting international human rights. Under an orthodox view of international law the obligation to protect human rights lies with the nation state. The power of multinationals has been recognized as diminishing the ability of weaker states to enforce human rights. Furthermore, concerns have been raised over the operation of multinationals in countries which have a poor human rights record. Numerous cases such as Doe v. Unocal Corp. alleging gross human rights violations carried out by multinationals or their associates in countries such as Burma (Myanmar) exist. Whilst concern has been raised over the role multinationals have played in human rights violations, recognition has also been given to the fact that multinationals have the potential to promote human rights in states with a poor track record beyond the ability of other nation states.\n\nUnder the International human rights framework corporations can only be held directly accountable for human rights violations which constitute international crimes as provided for in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Under the orthodox view States are the primary “subjects” of international law, and whilst International Organizations hold international legal personality, individuals and corporations hold limited standing There has been extensive debate on what status multinational corporations should hold at international law. Those arguing that multinationals should hold rights and duties do so on the ground that this is necessary given their size and influence. Those who argue against the imposition of international law upon multinationals contend that to do so would mean conveying rights which would inevitably enhance the influence and power they hold. Recent developments have seen the articulation of the human rights obligations of corporations but no enforceable regulatory mechanism exists at the international level.\n\nThe United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights stand as the authoritative statement on the human rights standards corporations should adhere to. The Principles consist of a three pillar framework: protect, respect and remedy. The Principles do not create new law or impose obligations on corporations, instead they provide what should constitute best practice. The protect pillar retains the orthodox position that is the responsibility of states to protect human rights. The respect pillar holds that corporations should respect human rights, undertaking due diligence to ensure that their conduct does not infringe upon any rights. The remedy pillar calls for remedies both judicial and non-judicial to be provided for those whose human rights have been infringed by a corporation. The response to the Principles has been mixed. The OECD, European Commission, and the United Nations Global Compact have all endorsed the Principles as providing clarity and a point of reference for future developments. Of most significance the United Nations Human Rights Council formally endorsed the Principles shortly after their publication. The Principles not been met with universal favour. The International Federation for Human Rights, which represents numerous human rights groups, criticized the Principles for failing to provide an effective remedy for victims on an international level and failing to recognize the responsibility of states for the actions of their companies abroad. Although currently non-binding there has been speculation by scholars that the Principles could provide a platform for a binding instrument or solidify into customary international law therefore creating legally binding obligations.\n\nThe \"OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises\" is a soft-law instrument containing information on the standards of conduct Multinational corporations should aim to meet. “They provide non-binding principles and standards for responsible business conduct in a global context consistent with applicable laws and internationally recognised standards.” Section IV of the updated 2011 version of the Guidelines deals directly with human rights and reiterates much of the content present in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. As such the Guidelines directly endorse the UN Guiding Principles. Section IV provides:\n\"States have the duty to protect human rights. Enterprises should, within the framework of internationally recognised human rights, the international human rights obligations of the countries in which they operate as well as relevant domestic laws and regulations:\nThe above six points mirror the three pillars of the UN Guiding Principles; State duty to protect, corporate responsibility to respect, and access to remedy. The Guidelines require participating states to establish National Contact Points (NCP). Allegations from individuals can be brought forward to the NCP. These are referred to as specific instances. The merits of the claim are then addressed by the NCP and if a case is found then an investigation will be undertaken. Mediation may take place between the company in question and the complainant as one of the final stages in the process. If a company is found to be in breach of the guidelines then a Final Statement will be produced outlining the violations of the Guidelines which occurred along with an impact assessment. Although remedies for any breaches of human rights are sought they cannot be enforced under the Guidelines. Amnesty International has commented that the Guidelines provide a \"lens for examining business conduct with regard to human rights.\" In this sense it has been argued that the OECD Guidelines have the potential to promote a degree of accountability. Amnesty International in its Briefing for the UK National Contact Point advised on the potential repercussions of a Final Statement for companies found to be non-compliant. Reputation, ability to operate, and value of shares may all be detrimentally affected by a finding of non-compliance. Amnesty believes that this may act as a deterrent, leveling the playing field for those companies who ensure they adhere to human rights standards. The rationale behind this being that the cost-benefit relationship is altered in favour of adherence to human rights.\n\nMany companies have taken it upon themselves to adopt their own codes of conduct which are self-imposed ethical standards. Most contain provisions on human rights. The Business and Human Rights Resource Centre maintains a list of companies which have a human rights policy in place. Whilst codes promote accountability, critics have argued that given their voluntary nature, and generally speaking lack of enforcement mechanisms, they are of limited value.\n\nSeveral organisations and commentators have recognised that many victims of human rights violations at the hands of multinational corporations will not have a means of redress in the country the violation has occurred. As such victims often rely on the exercise of extraterritorial jurisdiction. In Europe jurisdiction is granted to hear civil claims against via Resolution 44/2001 of the European Council but this requires that the corporation in question be domiciled in a Member State. The Alien Tort Statute is unique in that it in principle provides Federal courts in the United States of America with near universal jurisdiction to hear claims alleging serious violation of customary international law or the \"law of nations\", the only nexus required being that the defendant be present in the United States. However, the application of the statute to claims made against multinational corporations for human rights violations occurring abroad remains uncertain. Corporate liability for extraterritorial harms has been allowed by the Seventh, Ninth, Eleventh and D.C. Circuits but an increasing number of procedural limitations restricting access of foreign plaintiffs to redress have emerged. The recent decision of the Supreme Court in Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co. ruled that there is a presumption against the extraterritorial application of the Alien Tort Statue. The Business and Human Rights Resource Centre cites Kiobel as a turning point in the use of the Alien Tort Statue as a means for redress for human rights violations at the hands of corporations, and part of a wider trend globally in which avenues for extraterritorial claims are closing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43950067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43950067", "title": "Cottesloe Consultation", "text": "Cottesloe Consultation\n\nThe Cottesloe Consultation was a conference held from December 7–14, 1960 in Cottesloe, a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. The immediate impetus for the consultation was the international public outcry against the Sharpeville massacre that had taken place the previous March. Prior to the consultation's convening, Hendrik Verwoerd, who was Prime Minister of South Africa at the time, called the consultation \"an attempt by foreigners to meddle in the country's internal affairs\". The consultation was sponsored by the World Council of Churches (WCC) and all of the WWC member bodies in South Africa sent ten delegates to participate in the discussion. One of the delegates was German theologian Wilhelm Niesel, author of \"Die Theologie Calvins\". The consultation was organized by WCC's Robert S. Bilheimer.\n\nAt the consultation, the member bodies were urged to push the government of South Africa towards greater inclusion of black people in political office. The delegates agreed on the adoption of the Cottesloe Statement, which rejected unjust discrimination in various forms and made several specific resolutions with respect to such issues as freedom of religion, migrant work, and due process.\n\nThe boldest clause in the statement was the resolution that black residents of areas designated as \"white\" by apartheid legislation should be granted suffrage. The Dutch Reformed Church (DRC) in South Africa rejected the Cottesloe Statement as too theologically liberal, despite the fact that DRC theologians had been represented at the consultation and had agreed to the statement.\n"}
{"id": "9985755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9985755", "title": "Deutscher Memorial Prize", "text": "Deutscher Memorial Prize\n\nThe Isaac and Tamara Deutscher Memorial Prize is an annual prize given in honour of historian Isaac Deutscher and his wife Tamara Deutscher for new books published in English \"which exemplifies the best and most innovative new writing in or about the Marxist tradition.\" It has been ongoing since 1969.\n\nAs of September 2009, members of the Deutscher Jury include Chris Arthur, Alex Callinicos, Simon Clarke, Alejandro Colas, Esther Leslie, Peter Gowan, Marj Mayo, Sandy Nicoll, Alfredo Saad-Filho.\n\nRecipients include Jairus Banaji (2011, \"Theory as History: Essays on Modes of Production and Exploitation\"), David Harvey (2010, \"The Enigma of Capital and the Crises of Capitalism\"), Rick Kuhn (2007, for a biography of Henryk Grossman), Christopher Wickham (2006, for \"Framing the Early Middle Ages\"), Francis Wheen (1999, for a biography of Karl Marx), Eric Hobsbawm (1995, for \"The Age of Extremes\"), Terry Eagleton (1989, \"The Ideology of the Aesthetic\"), Robert Brenner (1985, for \"The Brenner Debate\"), and G.A. Cohen (1978, for \"Karl Marx's Theory of History: A Defence\").\n\n"}
{"id": "20772245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20772245", "title": "Embassy of Turkey, Rome", "text": "Embassy of Turkey, Rome\n\nThe Embassy of the Turkey in Rome () is Turkey's diplomatic mission to Italy. It is located at Via Palestro, 28, Rome. \n\nThe current ambassador is Murat Esenli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5800772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5800772", "title": "EuroSim", "text": "EuroSim\n\nThe primary purpose of EuroSim is to provide a framework for a partial simulation of a major European Union issue. \n\nMore than two hundred students, drawn from universities in North America and Europe, participate in the simulation. All students are assigned roles, including Members of the European Parliament, members of the European Commission, heads of government, and national ministers. Students prepare for the simulation at their own universities, with the help of faculty advisers and guidance that is provided through a course management website. Researching the simulation topic and the assigned roles constitutes an important part of all students' preparatory work. The simulations themselves are held over a period of four days, with the venue alternating between the U.S. and Europe annually.\n\nRecent issues simulated include energy policy, asylum policy, food safety, enlargement, the Constitutional Convention, the Intergovernmental Conference, EU neighborhood policy, Kosovo, EU-Russia relations, EU Budget, migration policy, and data retention. \n\nThe idea for a model European Union came in the fall of 1987 when students at SUNY (State University of New York) College at Brockport asked the political science department to sponsor a model United Nations. After thorough consideration by faculty, students at SUNY Brockport agreed to be involved in a project regarding what was formerly called the European Community.\n\nThe first simulation was held on the Brockport campus, April 8–10, 1988. Involving SUNY and private New York schools, the simulation held the title SUNYMEC (State University of New York Model European Community). It wasn’t until 1992 the simulation established the label EuroSim and became a trans-Atlantic exchange with its first overseas meeting in Luxemburg. The 2003 simulation event was the first time EuroSim was a trans-Atlantic endeavor - a sure sign of the simulation’s maturity. The term “trans-Atlantic” indicates the simulation is organized and planned by faculty and students from both Europe and the United States. In fact, EuroSim 2003 was the first time the simulation was planned by U.S. and European student directors equally.\nA simulation was held at the Europaisch Akademie in Otzenhausen, Germany in 2008. The 2009 EuroSim was hosted by Canisius College in Buffalo, New York, followed by a simulation at the University of Antwerp in 2010. In 2011, EuroSim moved out of New York state for the first time, with Widener University in Chester, Pennsylvania. In 2012, The University of Lower Silesia in Wroclaw, Poland held the simulation. The most recent simulation was held at East Stroudsburg University, Pennsylvania, April 4-7 2013. The next edition will be hosted by the University of Twente, the Netherlands, January 4-7 2014 on the theme of \"Economic and Social Policy: Minimum Income Directive\".\n\nEuroSim is funded and supported through sponsorship by the following organizations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17686003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686003", "title": "Gentile Reform", "text": "Gentile Reform\n\nThe Gentile Reform of 1923 was a reform of the Italian educational system through a series of normative acts (royal legislative decrees of 31 December 1922, n. 1679, 16 July 1923, n. 1753, 6 May 1923, n. 1054, 30 September 1923, n. 2102 and 1 October 1923, n. 2185), by the neo-idealist philosopher Giovanni Gentile, minister of education in Benito Mussolini's first cabinet. It officially recognized 21 universities in Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1935539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1935539", "title": "Governing Body Commission", "text": "Governing Body Commission\n\nThe Governing Body Commission (GBC) is the managerial authority of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON). ISKCON's founder, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, created the GBC in 1970 and since then it has met on an annual basis, usually in Mayapur, India.\n\nThe GBC is entrusted with both spiritual and secular leadership of the ISKCON communities, as well as the power to appoint new gurus. According to a GBC confidence survey, \"those holding critical views of the GBC were far less committed to ISKCON.\" In February 2009, Romapada Swami was elected GBC Chairman, succeeding Ramai Swami.\n\nAccording to the letter of 28 July 1970 A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada appointed the following members to the Governing Body Commission.\n\nThis letter outlines the following purposes of the commission:\n\nShortly after establishing the GBC, Prabhupada asked his newly appointed leaders to renounce the everyday world and become \"sannyasis\" (renunciate monks), indicating that those who set policy would not be involved with financial dealings. However, after Prabhupada's death some GBC members adopted lavish lifestyles. A number of schisms tested the notion of the supreme authority of the GBC. Some of these scandals involved GBC members Hans Kary (Hansadutta) and James Immel (Jayatirtha), as well as one of the leaders of the New Vrindaban community, Keith Ham (Kirtanananda), who surrounded himself with opulence and declared himself the only true successor to Prabhupada.\n\nIn 1982 the GBC began the slow process of adding new gurus to the original eleven. In 1983 the GBC was announced to be the highest ecclesiastical authority of ISKCON. In 1985 the decision was made to lower the standard of living for ISKCON leadership. After much heated discussion, the GBC decided to \"relieve\" a number of leaders and new leaders were selected. The young leaders of the GBC sought the advice of one of Prabhupada's Gaudiya Math godbrothers, and endeavored to become more integrated in the broader Hindu community.\n\nAfter years of discussion and reforms, a general consensus emerged to accept women as leaders and initiators in ISKCON, overriding the former GBC supposition that \"unprotected, 'women leaders become subject to various forms of mistreatment and abuse'\". In 1998 Malati Devi Dasi became the first woman appointed to the GBC. The second woman leader, Dina Sharana, was selected in 2009. However, a similar proposal had been discussed years previously.\n\nCurrent or former GBC members include: Bhakti Caitanya Swami, Bhakti Caru Swami, Bhakti Tirtha Swami, Bhaktisvarupa Damodar Swami, Giriraja Swami, Gopala Krishna Goswami, Hansadutta Swami, Hridaya Caitanya Dasa, Hridayananda Dasa Goswami, Jayatirtha Dasa, Jayapataka Swami, Kirtanananda Swami, Malati Dasi, Mukunda Goswami, Radhanath Swami, Ramesvara Swami, Ravindra Svarupa Dasa, Romapada Swami, Satsvarupa Dasa Goswami, Sivarama Swami, Tamala Krishna Goswami, Devamrita Swami and others listed below:\n\nWas initiated by Srila Prabhupada in 1976 and since 1993 has served as Director of Communications for ISKCON in North America. He is also a member of the faculty at Bhaktivedanta College.\n\nWas the commission's chairman in 2005, and now serves as the editor in chief of the Dandavats Vaishnava news agency.\n\nWas born Philip Burbank in 1949, in Buffalo, New York. In January 1969, while studying at the University at Buffalo, he joined ISKCON and the same year was initiated by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, receiving the name Prahladananda Dasa. In 1975 he joined the Radha-Damodara preaching bus tour, organised by Tamala Krishna Goswami and Vishnujana Swami. In 1982 he took sannyasa and in 1986 he became one of the initiating gurus in ISKCON. In 1989 he became a member the Vaisnava Institute for Higher Education, in Vrndavana. In 1990 he was appointed to head the Governing Body Commission's committee of Health and Welfare. In 1991, the GBC also made him the head of sannyasa ministry.\n\nWas chairman of the Governing Body Commission in 2008. Ramai Swami started the first Hare Krishna Food for Life program, at the ISKCON temple in Sydney, Australia. It was called ISKCON Food Relief and was operated through the back entrance of the Sydney Hare Krishna temple.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3979517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3979517", "title": "Health 21", "text": "Health 21\n\nHealth 21 or Health21 is the name given to the World Health Organization (WHO) European Region policy framework derived from the \"health-for-all policy for the twenty-first century\" passed by the World Health Assembly in 1998. The framework was called \"Health 21\" not only because it dealt with health in the 21st century, but also because it laid out 21 \"targets\" for improving the health of Europeans.\n\nThe Health 21 targets were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8650374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8650374", "title": "History of the Scottish Socialist Party", "text": "History of the Scottish Socialist Party\n\nIn Scotland, the Scottish Socialist Party (SSP) is a left-wing political party. The party was formed in 1998 from an alliance of left-wing organisations in Scotland. In 1999, it saw its first MSP returned to Holyrood, with five more MSPs elected in 2003. It lost all MSPs in the 2007 elections and has lacked representation in the Scottish Parliament ever since.\n\nThe forerunner of the SSP was the Scottish Socialist Alliance (SSA), a coalition of left-wing bodies in Scotland formed in 1996. Around 400 people attended the SSA's launch rally in Glasgow in February 1996, which attracted socialists and communists from various party backgrounds. The largest group involved was Scottish Militant Labour.\n\nThe first election fought by the SSA was the Toryglen by-election for Glasgow City Council in August 1996, with Rosie Kane as the candidate, where it won a respectable 18% of the vote. The SSA went on to contest 16 seats in Scotland at the United Kingdom general election, 1997, including all ten Glasgow seats, Edinburgh North and Leith, and both Dundee seats. Tommy Sheridan saved his deposit in Glasgow Pollok, and Jim McVicar and Alan McCombes picked up a significant vote in Glasgow Baillieston and Glasgow Govan respectively.\n\nThe SSA's electoral stance was that there needed to be a left-wing alternative to New Labour and the SNP, and the SSA felt that the experience had been enough of a success to go on to form the Scottish Socialist Party (SSP) in 1998, with Tommy Sheridan as its convenor, in advance of the Scottish Parliament general election, 1999.\n\nThe SSP contested the by-election for the European Parliament constituent of North East Scotland that took place in November 1998.\n\nIn April 1999 the SSP announced their manifesto for the first elections to the devolved Scottish Parliament. Despite only having a party membership of around 1,200 the SSP contested all the regions, with the party's National Convenor Tommy Sheridan the top-placed on their Glasgow regional list. Sheridan was elected, becoming their first MSP.\n\nThe period following the election of Scotland's only socialist MSP saw sustained growth for the SSP. During this period of sustained and rapid growth, it recruited extensively from former members of the Labour Party and the Scottish National Party, in addition to trade unionists, environmentalists, and community campaigners. It also achieved what was, for a minor party, a respectable vote at the United Kingdom general election, 2001 and a series of by-elections for the UK and Scottish parliaments (Hamilton South, Ayr, Glasgow Anniesland, and Falkirk West).\n\nThe 2003 elections to the Scottish Parliament took place shortly after the decision of the UK parliament to invade Iraq and the UK firefighter dispute 2002–2003. The SSP had been active in the anti-war movement and the firefighters' dispute, and fielded candidates in all seats.They gained five additional regional list MSPs across Scotland: Frances Curran; Rosie Kane; Carolyn Leckie; Colin Fox; and Rosemary Byrne.\n\nThe party had a boost when the Scottish section of the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) affiliated with them, breaking their historical association with Labour.\n\nCampbell Martin, a former SNP MSP who had become an independent, came fairly close to joining the SSP. The party did, however, recruit John McAllion, a former Labour MSP who lost his seat at the 2003 election. He stood for the SSP in the Dunfermline and West Fife by-election, 2006, but gained only 537 votes (1.6%).\n\nOn 11 November 2004, Tommy Sheridan resigned as convener of the Scottish Socialist Party, citing personal reasons. It later emerged that he had been pressured into resignation by the party's National Executive because he intended to sue a national tabloid newspaper over stories he knew to be true. Colin Fox was elected to replace him at the party's 2005 leadership election.\n\nBy early August 2006, Sheridan was looking to become leader of the Scottish Socialist Party again but on 29 August 2006, before the election had taken place, Sheridan announced his intention to leave and found a new political party which he called Solidarity. His move was supported by Rosemary Byrne MSP. Sheridan hoped his splinter group would attract as many as 700 SSP members.\n\nThe SSP met immediately before the split at a national rally on 2 September 2006, at which Fox said \"the vast majority of SSP members\" had not been persuaded of the need for a new party. As a result of the split, the party's national conference was brought forward from the following Spring to that October, and all of the party positions went up for election. All of the incumbents were re-elected, including Colin Fox as National Convener.\n\nIn October 2006 the RMT withdrew their support.\n\nAt the 2007 Scottish Parliament election, the SSP hemorrhaged votes while Solidarity failed to win a seat. At the local elections that year, the SSP retained one councillor, Jim Bollan, who was re-elected in West Dunbartonshire.\n\nFollowing the 2011 elections to the Scottish Parliament and the resulting SNP majority, the Scottish Government announced its intent to hold an independence referendum in 2014. In May 2012, a cross-party organisation called Yes Scotland was established to campaign for a Yes vote. The SSP's national co-spokesperson, Colin Fox, was invited to sit on its Advisory Board, reflecting the party's crucial support for independence over the past fifteen years. This was done at the insistence of Yes Scotland's non-partisan chief executive, Blair Jenkins, in the face of SNP opposition. During the referendum campaign, the party continued to campaign on other issues including the bedroom tax, fuel poverty, equal marriage, and the latest Israel-Gaza conflict.\n\nOn 11 September 2013, the SSP launched a pamphlet called \"The Case for an Independent Socialist Scotland\", the publication of which has been welcomed by MSPs. It has become the party's fastest-selling pamphlet ever. A launch event was held in the Scottish Parliament, hosted by Independent MSP John Finnie, and subsequent launch events took place in Paisley and Aberdeen. In June 2014, the party published another pamphlet outlining its case for \"a modern democratic republic\". In response to the publication of \"Scotland's Future\", the party issued a statement which said the Scottish Government's document had set out a vision that represents \"very significant advance for the people of Scotland\", but reaffirmed the SSP's commitment to a socialist Scotland.\n\nAs part of the party's campaign for independence, it held dozens of public meetings across Scotland with a range of speakers. The party's final meeting, scheduled to take place in Drumchapel Community Centre, was cancelled after unionist protests. In the aftermath, Richie Venton said: \"Those demonstrating may have learned that their support for a Westminster regime was impoverishing themselves and their communities. But what they should know is we shall continue to fight against austerity and the tyranny of the Tories over communities like Drumchapel, Govan, Easterhouse and indeed, Scotland.\"\n\nIn an interview with the \"Sunday Herald\" in late August 2014, Colin Fox said: \"The SSP has brought a proletarian sense to Yes Scotland and reminded people the decisive issue is whether people think they're going to be better off. It's not the currency, it's not the EU, it's not those highfalutin' chattering class issues.\" He said that the party brought \"a sense of the schemes, the workplaces, the unions\" to the campaign.\n\nAfter the announcement of the referendum result, the SSP was amongst the political parties that reported significant increases in the size of their membership. As of 23 September, more than 2,100 people had joined the party since the referendum result was declared. As a result, new branches were established across the country.\n\nWhen the make-up of the Smith Commission was announced, Colin Fox protested the decision to \"uniquely exclude\" the SSP from proceedings. He wrote to the Smith Commission: \"The argument some use to justify our exclusion on the grounds that we currently have no 'parliamentary representation' fails to appreciate that the referendum was not a parliamentary process but an unprecedented public debate that resulted in an extraordinary level of engagement from all sections of society. To exclude the SSP is to exclude an important constituency of opinion in Scottish society.\"\n\nThe SSP's 2014 National Conference took place in Edinburgh on 25 October and the party reported it had been better attended than the preceding several years and that their membership had trebled during the weeks following the referendum. It was the first SSP conference to be streamed live over the Internet.\n"}
{"id": "2935754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2935754", "title": "Householder Franchise", "text": "Householder Franchise\n\nHouseholder Franchise or \"census suffrage\" is where a homeowner has the right to vote in an election. This is a limited form of suffrage, but different from equal voting because, to borrow a dictum, householder franchise is \"one Household, one vote\" because it entitles only the householder one vote.\n"}
{"id": "17320308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17320308", "title": "Housing segregation in the United States", "text": "Housing segregation in the United States\n\nHousing segregation is the practice of denying African American or other minority groups equal access to housing through the process of misinformation, denial of realty and financing services, and racial steering. Housing policy in the United States has influenced housing segregation trends throughout history. Key legislation include the National Housing Act of 1934, the GI Bill, and the Fair Housing Act. Factors such as socioeconomic status, spatial assimilation, and immigration contribute to perpetuating housing segregation. The effects of housing segregation include relocation, unequal living standards, and poverty. However, there have been initiatives to combat housing segregation, such as the Section 8 housing program.\n\nIn 1934 the practice of redlining neighborhoods came into existence through the National Housing Act of 1934. This practice, also known as mortgage discrimination, began when the federal government and the newly formed Federal Housing Administration allowed the Home Owners' Loan Corporation to create \"residential security maps\", outlining the level of security for real-estate investments in 239 cities around the United States. On these maps, high-risk areas were outlined in red. Many minority neighborhoods were redlined in these maps, meaning that banks would deny all mortgage capital to people living within them. This contributed to the decay of many of these neighborhoods because the lack of loans for buying or making repairs on the homes made it difficult for these neighborhoods to attract and keep families. Many urban historians point to redlining as one of the main factors for urban disinvestment and the decline of central cities in the middle decades of the 20th century.\n\nThis piece of legislation occurred during the New Deal era and provided the basis for future public housing programs. This act allowed for the creation of around 160,000 units of public housing. Most of these units were made to alleviate the housing difficulties of the poor and working class suffering from the Great Depression. Additionally, this public housing program allowed for the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) to provide various monetary funds to local housing authorities to aid with the building and development of these units. Despite providing low budget housing options, this act created greater racial segregation in housing because the majority of the poor population at the time consisted of minorities.\n\nAt the end of World War II, the GI Bill furthered segregation practices by keeping African Americans out of European American neighborhoods, showing another side to African American housing discrimination. When millions of GIs returned home from overseas, they took advantage of the \"Servicemen's Readjustment Act,\" or the GI Bill. This important document was signed in 1944 by Franklin D. Roosevelt, and gave veterans education and training opportunities, guaranteed loans for home, farm, or business, job finding assistance, and unemployment pay of $20 a week for up to 52 weeks if a veteran could not find a job. This law allowed millions of U.S. soldiers to purchase their first homes with inexpensive mortgages, which meant the huge growth of suburbs and the birth of the ideal of a suburban lifestyle.\n\nAfrican Americans were met with discrimination when trying to purchase a home in the overwhelmingly European American neighborhoods. The realtors would not show these houses to African Americans, and when they did, they would try and talk them out of buying the home. This discrimination was based on the fact that realtors believed they would be losing future business by dealing or listing with African Americans, and that it would be unethical to sell a house in a European American neighborhood to African Americans because it would drive the property values of the surrounding houses down.\n\nBoth redlining and discrimination through the GI Bill relegated most African Americans to a concentrated area within the city, so the declining property values and the higher crime rates could be kept in a contained area. The relegation of African Americans to the neighborhoods that were receiving no support due to redlining practices was a self-fulfilling prophecy that created the high crime slums that the city was afraid of.\n\nThe overt discriminatory practices of refusal of sale and loans continued unabated until at least 1968, when the Fair Housing Act was passed. After this act was passed, outright refusal to sell property to African Americans became rare, given that that behavior could lead to prosecution under the Fair Housing Law. The Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity is charged with administering and enforcing fair housing laws. Any person who believes that they have faced housing discrimination based on their race can file a fair housing complaint.\n\nThe most comprehensive federal fair housing act of its time, this piece of legislation mandated fair housing as a national policy and restricted discriminatory practices. Specifically, discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin was prohibited in the rental, sale, financing, and brokerage of housing or housing services. However, this act did not give the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) a lot of enforcing power. HUD was only allowed to mediate housing discrimination disputes between parties. It did not have the power to file lawsuits or take definitive legal action.\n\nDuring his presidential term, Nixon's federal housing policy undermined the Fair Housing Act. His policy acknowledged that federal law requires nondiscriminatory practices in federal housing matters but did not provide presidential support. Nixon declared that government could not force suburban desegregation or economic/racial integration. In doing so, he secured many suburban votes but further exacerbated the issue of housing inequality by not supporting subsidized housing programs to help desegregation.\n\nThe Equal Credit Opportunity Act provided protection against discrimination from creditors. It stated that creditors could not discriminate against applicants based on race, sex, marital status, religion, ethnicity or age. Designed to supplement the Fair Housing Act in specific forms of housing discrimination, this piece of legislation offered more protection against discrimination in lending practices.\n\nLike the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974, this piece of legislation was also designed to supplement the Fair Housing Act in specific areas of housing discrimination. This act protected applicants from discrimination through lending institutions by requiring that any financial institution providing federally related mortgage loan disclose data annually. This included reports of the amount and location of loans related to federal housing (by census tract or ZIP code). The purpose of this was to prevent lending discrimination in certain localities.\n\nThe Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 required banks to apply the same anti-discriminatory guidelines to their lending criteria in all circumstances. These acts did not completely stop discriminatory practices, however. The discrimination moved into more subtle techniques, including racial steering and misinformation given to African American prospective buyers. Although these laws exist in theory, they have not accomplished their goal of eradicating discrimination based on race in the housing market. Audits of the housing market in Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, and many other major metropolitan areas have shown discrimination toward African Americans continuing into the 80s, long after the anti-discrimination laws were passed.\nResidential segregation is typically measured by evenness and exposure. Evenness is defined as the relative dispersion of a certain racial group in a metropolitan area whereas exposure is defined as how much a member of a certain racial group is exposed to a member of another racial group. In general, the number of integrated neighborhoods have continued to increase since the passing of the Fair Housing Act in 1968. In addition, the number of exclusively white neighborhoods have been decreasing. Although there has been an increase of a minority population presence in suburbs, residential segregation continues to persist. On average, it is more likely for minority groups to be exposed to mixed neighborhoods than white populations. Residential segregation is not limited to the private housing market. Discriminatory practices also take place within the federal public housing system.\n\nOverall, in the period from 1980–2000, residential segregation between the black and white population has decreased at a greater rate than other minority groups. However, the African American population, currently the second largest minority group in the United States, still experiences the greatest residential segregation compared to other minority groups. The older industrial cities of the Midwest and Northeast, experience the highest levels of black-white residential segregation, while the newer metropolitan areas of the South are experiences lesser levels of black-white residential segregation. The presence of a black population in the suburbs continues to increase with 40% of African Americans currently living in the suburbs.\n\nDue to Immigration to the United States over the past decades, the Latino population has grown exponentially, making Latinos the largest minority group in the United States. After African Americans, Latinos experience the second highest level of residential segregation. From 1980–2000, the level of neighborhood dissimilarity and isolation increased between the Latino population and the white population. Although around 50% of Latinos live in the suburban area, it is projected that with increasing immigration, the divide between Latino and white populations will continue to persist in residential areas.\n\nAsians in the United States are a diverse group with a complex historical background. Chinese Americans first came to the United States in the mid-1800s during the California Gold Rush, and Japanese Americans emigrated to the United States in the late 1800s as indentured servants. These populations faced systemic discrimination forcing them to live close together, particularly segregating in national origin-specific groups in major cities. Asian immigration to the US then increased in the 1960s after reform and passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965. Due to immigration to the United States over the past decades, the Asian population has grown considerably, making Asians the third largest minority group in the United States. Similar to the Latino and Black minority groups, the Asian minority group experiences high levels of isolation and dissimilarity to their white counterparts. From 1980–2000, these levels have only increased. Currently 55% of Asians live in the suburban area, but their levels of isolation from their White counterparts have increased over time despite residential mobility. Several factors can contribute to residential isolation including recent immigration status, level of English language proficiency, and level of acculturation to American society. Socioeconomic status can also contribute to residential segregation, and Chinatowns in the United States continue to represent a large concentration of Asian poverty.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act of 1968 and the Housing for Older Persons Act of 1995 allow residential communities to restrict residency to the senior. These communities are set up to accommodate older individuals who dislike having young residents as neighbors.\n\nThe relegation of African Americans to certain contained neighborhoods continues today. The cycle of neighborhood disinvestment followed by gentrification and dislocation of the minority has made it difficult for African Americans to establish themselves, build equity, and try to break out into suburban neighborhoods. If they have the means to relocate, the neighborhoods they relocate to are most likely populated by European American people who support open housing laws in theory, but become uncomfortable and relocate if they are faced with a rising Black population in their own neighborhood. This white flight creates an overwhelmingly African American neighborhood, and then disinvestment begins anew. All of these subtle discriminatory practices leave the metropolitan African American population with few options, forcing them to remain in disinvested neighborhoods with rising crime, gang activity, and dilapidated housing.\n\nNeighborhood disinvestment is a systematic withdrawal of capital and neglect of public services by the city. Public services may include schools; building, street, and park maintenance; garbage collection and transportation. Absentee landlordism and mortgage redlining also characterize disinvestment. As redlining prevents households from owning, they have no choice but to rent from landlords that neglect property and charge high rent. These factors allow the devalorization cycle to occur in a neighborhood, eventually leading to the reclamation and transformation of the neighborhood, uprooting the poor residents who have no equity to use for relocation.\n\nA deeper look into disinvestment in the community can be termed devalorization. This is when neighborhood decline is analyzed by emphasizing the profit taking of realtors, bankers, and speculators which systematically reduces the worth or value of housing. The devalorization of a neighborhood begins to occur when the city decides to begin disinvesting in it, and the disproportionate influx of minorities shift the neighborhood from mostly live-in owners to absentee landlords. These landlords buy up the houses during white flight from the neighborhood and rent them to the minorities moving in for a high price. In Albina, this process was shown through intensive white flight from the neighborhood, and large redevelopment projects that destroyed the heart of the African American community for the remodeling of a veteran's hospital. This project relocated many African Americans into an even smaller area, creating an overcrowded, volatile environment. Most of the community that survived did not own their homes, and the absentee landlords neglected to make repairs on their properties. The relocation of so many African Americans from southern Albina because of the hospital project caused more white flight on the northern side of Albina, creating more opportunities for landlords use the tactic of blockbusting, or using the fear of racial turnover and property value decline to convince homeowners to sell at below-market prices, allowing the landlords to then inflate the cost of the property and extort the new African American home buyers.\n\nThere is an existence of a dual housing market that results in unequal housing opportunities for different populations of people. The basis of the dual housing market model is that similar housing opportunities are available to different racial groups at different prices. There are many explanations for the existence of a dual housing market. One theory explains the dual housing market through racial steering. This occurs when real estate brokers steer their clients to specific geographic locations of available housing based on race. Although racial discrimination in housing market processes is outlawed by several court decisions and legislation, there is evidence that it still occurs. For example, an HUD Housing Market Practice survey found that African Americans felt discriminated against in the renting and/or buying process of housing. Institutional factors, such as realtor agencies withholding housing information or financial institutions denying mortgages, further perpetuate the effects of the dual housing market model.\n\nAnother explanation of the existence of a dual housing market is the availability of housing units, either for sale or for rent, for minority groups. Oftentimes, price discriminations results from price fluctuations of property based on the existing demographic of residence in a neighborhood. Racial preference affects the available geographic spaces open to certain minority groups. For example, African Americans are disproportionately found in a small distribution of suburban communities.\n\nOne theory of the cause of residential segregation is the difference in income between minority groups and their white counterparts. The basis of this theory stems from purchasing power: the higher the income, the more likely minority groups are to move to better neighborhoods which in turn results in more integrated neighborhoods. In other words, there seems to be an inverse relationship between a minority group's socioeconomic status and the minority group's level of residential segregation. Many argue that residential segregation occurs because minority groups, particularly immigrants, do not have the wealth or income to purchase homes in more affluent and predominantly white neighborhoods. Although there is a definite relationship between socioeconomic status and residential segregation, the effect of this relationship is different among minority groups.\n\nIn terms of location, poverty-stricken communities tend to reside in the inner cities while affluent communities tend to reside in the suburbs. In addition, better neighborhoods contain better educational services and easier access to various occupations. This spatial and economic segregation further perpetuates residential segregation. Across all minority groups, there is a residential gap based on income. Residential segregation between the rich and the poor, occurring at different rates, takes place across the board.\n\nAfrican Americans and Latinos, compared to their white counterpart, experience a greater difference in income, education, and occupation levels. On the other hand, Asians experience a lesser difference in terms of income, education, and occupation levels when compared to their white counterpart. These factors, education and occupation, influence income and purchasing power of an individual. For African Americans, Asians, and Latinos, higher income resulted in less segregation from their white counterpart whereas lower income resulted in greater segregation from their white counterpart. However, that an increase in socioeconomic status resulted in a greater decrease in segregation for Latinos and Asians and a lesser decrease in segregation for African Americans suggests that socioeconomic status alone cannot explain residential segregation.\n\nRecent reforms and policies on Immigration to the United States have caused an influx of immigrants from Latin America and Asia. The spatial assimilation theory states that immigrants are more likely to experience residential segregation because of a variety of factors such as social networks, family, income, and cultural preference. Upon moving to a new country, immigrants are more likely to relocate to an area where they have feel comfortable and accepted. In addition, their income may only allow them to occupy spaces that are more ethnically diverse. The three generation model is a theory that attempts to explain assimilation across generations. It states that over time, as the children of immigrants become more acculturated, they begin to disperse geographically and assimilate themselves in suburban neighborhoods. Therefore, there is a correlation between residential segregation and the intergenerational process of assimilation.\n\nThe acculturation of immigrant children also relates to the socioeconomic status of the parent or parents. As the children become more acculturated to the customs of the host country, they become more comfortable with the cultural norms and improve their speaking abilities. A higher socioeconomic status allows them to disperse from the ethnically concentrated community and move into neighborhoods with better services and quality housing. This process across generations eventually results in the continued desegregation of more affluent, predominantly white, suburban neighborhoods.\n\nAmong all minority groups, foreign-born immigrants experience greater segregation from whites than native-born groups. However, assimilation varies among minority groups. Overall, Latino-white segregation is higher than Asian-white segregation. Black-white segregation is the highest when comparing all minority groups. New immigrants tend to experience higher levels of segregation than immigrants that have lived in the host country for a while.\n\nOnce their old neighborhood has been gentrified, many of the residents are forced to relocate, if they have not already done so. When hunting for a new residence, African Americans will more than likely encounter discrimination on some level. Audits performed by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and a later Housing Development Study suggest that if realtors have a chance to discriminate, they usually do. These studies analyzed the amount of cases where whites were given more information about available units or financing options or shown extra units in proportion to African Americans. The results showed that whites were systematically favored for both rental and sales units throughout metropolitan areas in the United States. Racial steering was also taken into account during these audits, and it was shown through the results that African Americans were shown homes in areas that had more minorities, lower home values, or lower median incomes that the homes that were shown to European Americans, even if their economic position was the same. It was shown that about one in every three encounters, African Americans were systematically steered to these non-European American neighborhoods.\n\nThis segregation is not self-imposed. That is, African Americans do not prefer to live in neighborhoods that are overwhelmingly Black. Survey evidence from a Detroit Area Survey from 1976 shows that African Americans strongly favor the desegregation of the United States, with the overall ideal neighborhood being 50% black and 50% white. Whites, on the other hand, favor neighborhood composition that is dominated by whites. In the same survey, about one-quarter of the whites surveyed said they would feel uncomfortable if their neighborhood exceeded 8% Black. Once the neighborhood reached 21% Black, almost half of the whites surveyed said they would feel uncomfortable.\n\nOne of the important social effects on the individual that results from residential segregation is the influence on behavior. Segregated communities tend to slow the rate of assimilation, especially in the ability to speak English, which is considered a primary aspect of assimilating in the United States. The ability to speak English has been shown to result in the increased rate of desegregation in communities. Another behavioral influence of residential segregation is the effect on social networks created. Friendships and marriages tend to occur at a higher probability among people living in close proximities. In other words, people who are spatially separate are less likely to form lasting relationships. A negative behavioral influence of residential segregation is the perpetuation of violence. Specifically with gang activity, the higher the level of segregation, the greater the density of altercations between rival gangs.\n\nMany studies have shown that racial or ethnic minority neighborhoods are disproportionally affected by health issues related to the environment, such as a lack of healthy food options, a lack of available pharmacies, and an increased number of advertisements for alcohol and tobacco. In addition, there has been a trend over the past few years of a concentration of ethnic minorities in low-income urban neighborhoods. One of the factors associated with this rise in urban, low-income neighborhoods is residential segregation. Many of these urban, low-income neighborhoods experience unequal accessibility to services compared to their sub-urban counterparts, which often results in an unhealthy food environment.\n\nOne of the main reasons for the increasing presence of unhealthy food environments in these neighborhoods is the emergence of food deserts. Several theories regarding the rise of food deserts in low-income neighborhoods are circulating in the literature. One of the prevailing theories states that food deserts resulted from the development of larger supermarkets in affluent areas and the closure of small, independent groceries stores that could not compete economically. Another theory states that supermarket development shifted spatially with the rise of income segregation. As more the more affluent middle-class moved to the suburbs, many inner city grocery stores closed from lack of business. Another prevailing theory is the idea of supermarket redlining, the unwillingness of supermarkets to open stores in the inner city due to various economic reasons.\n\nThis overall development of unhealthy food environments in low-income urban neighborhoods affects the development of health in the community members. The lack of healthy food options forces these residents to purchase and consume energy dense food options such as meals from fast-food restaurants. These residents are also forced to purchase highly processed foods because of the lack of fresh food options. In addition, food at independently owned grocery stores are often 10-60% more expensive than food offered at large chain supermarkets.\n\nHousing segregation has an effect on the quality of education received by community members. Specifically, the spatial separation of specific populations due to housing segregation leads to geographic concentrations of quality education. For example, public schools in suburban areas are usually more equipped with resources, have a higher percentage quality teachers, and produce a larger amount of successful students. The negative effects of housing segregation on quality of education is demonstrated by the lack of integration and diversity in schools. The Equality of Educational Opportunity study in 1966 found that racial composition of schools impacted student success more than the resources available to schools. This cycle of unequal educational opportunities is perpetuated by the real estate market. Areas with quality school systems usually contain higher housing prices and higher property taxes. In addition, these areas are typically racially and economically homogenous.\n\nOne of the primary reasons of unequal educational opportunities is the low accessibility to the suburbs by minority groups due to lack of income. The suburban areas, containing higher quality education, are less accessible to low-income minority groups. Another reason of unequal education opportunities is the rise in options of schooling for parents. In addition to public schools, parents with enough purchasing power can opt to send their children to private schools, magnet schools and even home school. Other options include charter schools. These various educational options contribute to the relationship between school quality and school enrollment demographics. Quality of education also affects the outcomes of community members. In other words, the kind of education children receive plays a major role in economic opportunities in their future. Students surrounded by other educated members of the community often experience more success with school. Furthermore, community environment and housing quality affect the drop-out rate of students.\n\nHousing segregation affects the development of concentrated areas of poverty, especially among racial minorities groups. Housing segregation interacts with existing poverty rates among minority groups, especially African Americans and Latinos, to perpetuate the cycle of poor people moving into concentrated areas of poverty. These concentrated areas of poverty often experience a lack of public services and infrastructure. Studies have shown that these residential areas often have less employment opportunities, unequal schooling environments, and increased health risks. These factors combine to perpetuate poverty and prevent social and spatial mobility. The lack of employment opportunities come in many different forms such as decreased accessibility to jobs because of transportation or unavailability of jobs due to location. The result of unequal economic opportunities is the increase in income segregation. This further perpetuates poverty because low-income residents experience higher rent burden which forces them to accept low quality housing. This cycle of poverty also extends between generations. This means that children living in low-income neighborhoods are more likely to experience poverty and the same living standards as their parents' generation.\n\nIn addition to income segregation, the effects of housing segregation on the development of concentrated areas of poverty are also associated with class and racial segregation. Class segregation plays a role in the concentration of poverty areas in that affluent classes of society have a desire to spatially separate themselves from the less fortune, poverty-stricken class. As a result, they move towards more affluent neighborhoods leaving the poor concentrated in a certain area. Racial segregation also plays a role in the concentration of poverty areas. In fact, the degree of housing segregation due to racial differences is greater than the degree of housing segregation due to class differences. The three factors of income, class, and racial segregation can explain the increasing concentration of poverty in certain areas. All three of these factors can be associated with the causes and effects of housing segregation.\n\nThe relationship of community members is often affected by their physical surroundings. Diverse neighborhoods containing various racial and ethnic groups experience many barriers to community collectivism, such as culture, economic background, and fundamental values. However, having a strong community building strategy can help break down barriers of segregation. Leaders of community strong pro-diversity organizations stress the need for a sense of community among members. Creating a diverse and stable neighborhood requires focusing on economic development, community safety, and education.\n\nFocusing on economic development means creating a market in the existing neighborhood. This not only creates jobs for community members but also inhibits disinvestment, a common cause of housing segregation, in neighborhoods. Community safety strongly influences the perception of the stability of a neighborhood. Active participation of community members in the safety of their neighborhood increases community efficacy because there is a perception of controlled crime which, in turn, gives people a sense of control over their quality of life. Education is also related to the positive, or negative, perception of a neighborhood. Schools not only foster safe environments for cross-cultural cooperation but also influence community attitudes towards race, ethnicity, and diversity.\n\nTraditionally, public housing programs perpetuate housing segregation by forcing minority populations in low-income neighborhoods containing lower quality housing options. However, the Section 8 housing program combats this problem by providing households with housing certificates/vouchers that can be used to rent units anywhere in the private market at a moderate price. In other words, low-income families have the chance to move into affordable and higher quality housing. This option of choice and mobility offers a solution to the social and economic isolation of minority populations. In addition, families using these housing vouchers are more likely than public housing residents to live in racially and economically integrated neighborhoods.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development federal housing assistance program is the nations largest housing assistance program. Recipients of the voucher/certificate contribute 30% of their income to paying the rent and the government subsidizes the difference. The program is not only less costly because it relies on the existing housing market, but also more likely to offer affordable and quality housing to participants. This program contrasts previous housing programs which often clumped federally funded families into low-income urban neighborhoods. This program is extremely effective, with the majority of participants living in areas that are less than 20% poor.\n\nDespite this effectiveness, there is still a racial disparity among participant success. Overall, participants across all races are more likely to live in low-poverty, racially heterogenous neighborhoods compared to their counterparts in public housing. However, African American and Latino recipients are much more likely to live in high poverty areas compared to white recipients.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "155337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155337", "title": "Hyponymy and hypernymy", "text": "Hyponymy and hypernymy\n\nIn linguistics, a hyponym (from Greek \"hupó\", \"under\" and \"ónoma\", \"name\") is a word or phrase whose semantic field is included within that of another word, its hyperonym or hypernym (from Greek \"hupér\", \"over\" and \"ónoma\", \"name\"). In simpler terms, a hyponym is in a \"type-of\" relationship with its hypernym. For example, \"pigeon\", \"crow\", \"eagle\" and \"seagull\" are all hyponyms of \"bird\" (their hypernym); which, in turn, is a hyponym of \"animal\".\n\nHyponymy shows the relationship between a generic term (hypernym) and a specific instance of it (hyponym). A hyponym is a word or phrase whose semantic field is more specific than its hypernym. The semantic field of a hypernym, also known as a superordinate, is broader than that of a hyponym. An approach to the relationship between hyponyms and hypernyms is to view a hypernym as consisting of hyponyms. This, however, becomes more difficult with abstract words such as \"imagine\", \"understand\" and \"knowledge\". While hyponyms are typically used to refer to nouns, it can also be used on other parts of speech. Like nouns, hypernyms in verbs are words that refer to a broad category of actions. For example, verbs such as \"stare\", \"gaze\", \"view\" and \"peer\" can also be considered hyponyms of the verb \"look\", which is their hypernym.\n\nHypernyms and hyponyms are asymmetric. Hyponymy can be tested by substituting X and Y in the sentence ‘X is a kind of Y’ and determining if it makes sense. For example, ‘A screwdriver is a kind of tool’ makes sense but not ‘A tool is a kind of screwdriver’.\n\nStrictly speaking, the meaning relation between hyponyms and hypernyms applies to lexical items of the same word class (or parts of speech), and holds between senses rather than words. For instance, the word \"screwdriver\" used in the previous example refers to the tool for turning a screw, and not to the drink made with vodka and orange juice.\n\nHyponymy is a transitive relation, if X is a hyponym of Y, and Y is a hyponym of Z, then X is a hyponym of Z. For example, \"violet\" is a hyponym of \"purple\" and \"purple\" is a hyponym of \"color\"; therefore \"violet\" is a hyponym of \"color\". A word can be both a hypernym and a hyponym: for example \"purple\" is a hyponym of colour but itself is a hypernym of the broad spectrum of shades of purple between the range of \"crimson\" and \"violet\".\n\nThe hierarchical structure of semantic fields can be mostly seen in hyponymy. They could be observed from top to bottom, where the higher level is more general and the lower level is more specific. For example, \"living things\" will be the highest level followed by \"plants\" and \"animals\", and the lowest level may comprise \"dog\", \"cat\" and \"wolf\".\n\nUnder the relations of hyponymy and incompatibility, taxonomic hierarchical structures too can be formed. It consists of two relations; the first one being exemplified in 'An X is a Y' (simple hyponymy) while the second relation is 'An X is a kind/type of Y'. The second relation is said to be more discriminating and can be classified more specifically under the concept of taxonomy.\n\nIf the hypernym Z consists of hyponyms X and Y, X and Y are identified as co-hyponyms. Co-hyponyms are labelled as such when separate hyponyms share the same hypernym but are not hyponyms of one another, unless they happen to be synonymous. For example, \"screwdriver\", \"scissors\", \"knife\", and \"hammer\" are all co-hyponyms of one another and hyponyms of \"tool\", but not hyponyms of one another: *‘A hammer is a type of knife’ is false.\n\nCo-hyponyms are often but not always related to one another by the relation of incompatibility. For example, \"apple\", \"peach\" and \"plum\" are co-hyponyms of \"fruit\". However, an \"apple\" is not a \"peach\", which is also not a \"plum\". Thus, they are incompatible. Nevertheless, co-hyponyms are not necessarily incompatible in all senses. A \"queen\" and \"mother\" are both hyponyms of \"woman\" but there is nothing preventing the \"queen\" from being a \"mother\". This shows that compatibility may be relevant.\n\nComputer science often terms this relationship an \"is-a\" relationship. For example, the phrase 'Red is-a colour' can be used to describe the hyponymic relationship between \"red\" and \"colour\".\nHyponymy is the most frequently encoded relation among synsets used in lexical databases such as WordNet. These semantic relations can also be used to compare semantic similarity by judging the distance between two synsets and to analyse Anaphora.\n\nAs a hypernym can be understood as a more general word than its hyponym, the relation is used in semantic compression by generalization to reduce a level of specialization.\n\nThe notion of hyponymy is particularly relevant to language translation, as hyponyms are very common across languages. For example, in Japanese the word for older brother is , and the word for younger brother is . An English-to-Japanese translator presented with a phrase containing the English word \"brother\" would have to choose which Japanese word equivalent to use. This would be difficult, because abstract information (such as the speakers' relative ages) is often not available during machine translation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54051499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54051499", "title": "Intersex human rights reports", "text": "Intersex human rights reports\n\nIntersex people are born with sex characteristics, such as chromosomes, gonads, or genitals that, according to the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, \"do not fit the typical definitions for male or female bodies\". Such variations may involve genital ambiguity, and combinations of chromosomal genotype and sexual phenotype other than XY-male and XX-female.\n\nIntersex infants and children may be subject to stigma, discrimination and human rights violations, including in education, employment and medical settings. Human rights violations in medical settings are increasingly recognized as human rights abuses. Other human rights and legal issues include the right to life, access to justice and reparations, access to information, and legal recognition.\n\nImplementation of rights protections in legislation and regulation has been slower. Few countries so far protect intersex people from discrimination, or provide access to reparations for harmful practices. This page summarizes reports and statements on the human rights of intersex people.\n\nThe \"Malta declaration\" is the statement of the Third International Intersex Forum, which took place in Valletta, Malta, in 2013. The declaration was made by 34 people representing 30 organisations from multiple regions of the world.\n\nThe declaration affirmed the existence of intersex people and demanded an end to \"discrimination against intersex people and to ensure the right of bodily integrity, physical autonomy and self-determination\". For the first time, participants made a statement on birth registrations, in addition to other human rights issues.\n\nIn March 2017, a consensus \"Darlington Statement\" was published by Australian and Aotearoa/New Zealand intersex community organizations and others. The statement calls for legal reform, including the criminalization of deferrable intersex medical interventions on children, an end to legal classification of sex, and improved access to peer support.\n\nA statement was published after a conference in Vienna in March 2017. It called for an end to human rights violations, and recognition of rights to bodily integrity, physical autonomy and self-determination. The statement included calls to action by governments, educational institutions, medical and health care providers, media, and allies.\n\nThe 2006 \"Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity\" is a set of principles relating to sexual orientation and gender identity, intended to apply international human rights law standards to address the abuse of the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people. It briefly mentions intersex, influenced by the Declaration of Montreal which first demanded prohibition of unnecessary post-birth surgery to reinforce gender assignment until a child is old enough to understand and give informed consent. The Yogyakarta Principles detail this in the context of existing UN declarations and conventions under Principle 18, which called on states to:\n\nOn 1 February 2013, Juan E. Méndez, the UN Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, issued a statement condemning non-consensual surgical intervention on intersex people. His report states:\n\nIn October 2013, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution 1952, 'Children's right to physical integrity'. It calls on member states to\n\nIn May 2014, the World Health Organization issued a joint statement on Eliminating forced, coercive and otherwise involuntary sterilization, An interagency statement with the OHCHR, UN Women, UNAIDS, UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF. The report references the involuntary surgical \"sex-normalising or other procedures\" on \"intersex persons\". It questions the medical necessity of such treatments, patients' ability to consent, and a weak evidence base. The report recommends a range of guiding principles for medical treatment, including ensuring patient autonomy in decision-making, ensuring non-discrimination, accountability and access to remedies.\n\nIn a wide-ranging first detailed analysis on intersex health and human rights issues by an international institution, the Council of Europe published an \"Issue Paper\" entitled \"Human rights and intersex people\" in May 2015. The document highlighted an historic lack of attention to intersex human rights, stating that current social and biomedical understandings of sex and gender make intersex people \"especially vulnerable\" to human rights breaches. The report cited previous reports from San Franscisco, the Swiss National Advisory Commission on Biomedical Ethics and the Australian Senate. The Commissioner for Human Rights made eight recommendations. For this first time, these recognized a right to \"not\" undergo sex assignment treatment.\n\nIn 2015, the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) described human rights violations against intersex people:\n\nThe OHCHR acknowledged Australia and Malta as \"the first countries to expressly prohibit discrimination against intersex persons,\" and Malta as \"the first State to prohibit sex-assignment surgery or treatment on intersex minors without their informed consent.\" It called on UN member states to protect intersex persons from discrimination, and address violence by: \n\nIn June 2015, the World Health Organization published a major report on sexual and reproductive rights and the law. Section 3.4.9, on intersex people, identifies discrimination and stigma within health systems (citations omitted):\n\nThe report stated that intersex persons are entitled \"to access health services on the same basis as others, free from coercion, discrimination and violence\", with the ability offer free and informed consent. The report also called for the education and training of medical and psychological professionals on \"physical, biological and sexual diversity and integrity\".\n\nIn 2016, the Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions (AFP) manual on Promoting and Protecting Human Rights in relation to Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Sex Characteristics. The document provides an analysis of human rights issues, including the rights to physical integrity, non-discrimination, effective remedies and redress, and recognition before the law. The report states:\n\nFor Intersex Awareness Day, October 26, UN experts including the Committee against Torture, the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, along with the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and United Nations Special Rapporteurs called for an urgent end to human rights violations against intersex persons, including in medical settings. The experts also called for the investigation of human rights abuses, access to reparations, and the implementation of anti-discrimination measures.\n\nThe United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights also launched a website, \"United Nations for Intersex Awareness\".\n\nIn January 2017, the Committee on Bioethics of the Council of Europe published a report on children's rights entitled, \"The Rights of Children in Biomedicine: Challenges posed by scientific advances and uncertainties\". The report was critical of the lack of evidence for early intersex medical interventions, stating that, on \"the scientific question of whether intervention is necessary, only three medical procedures have been identified as meeting that criteria in some infants: (1) administration of endocrine treatment to prevent fatal salt-loss in some infants, (2) early removal of streak gonads in children with gonadal dysgenesis, and (3) surgery in rare cases to allow exstrophic conditions in which organs protrude from the abdominal wall or impair excretion\".\n\nThe 2005 \"Human Rights Investigation into the Medical \"Normalization\" of Intersex People\", by the Human Rights Commission of the City and County of San Francisco is thought \"likely to be the first human rights report into the treatment of intersex people, certainly in the English language.\"\n\nIn late 2012, the Swiss National Advisory Commission on Biomedical Ethics reported on intersex. The Commission report makes a strong case against medical intervention for \"psychosocial\" reasons:\n\nThe report is notable for making a clear apology for damage done to intersex people in the past, and up until the present. It recommends deferring all \"non-trivial\" surgeries which have \"irreversible consequences\". The report also recommended criminal sanction for non-medically necessary genital surgeries.\n\nIn October 2013, the Australian Senate published a report entitled \"Involuntary or coerced sterilisation of intersex people in Australia\". The Senate found that \"normalising\" surgeries are taking place in Australia, often on infants and young children, with preconceptions that it described as \"disturbing\": \"Normalising appearance goes hand in hand with the stigmatisation of difference\".\n\nThey commented: \"...normalisation surgery is more than physical reconstruction. The surgery is intended to deconstruct an intersex physiology and, in turn, construct an identity that conforms with stereotypical male and female gender categories\" and: \"Enormous effort has gone into assigning and 'normalising' sex: none has gone into asking whether this is necessary or beneficial. Given the extremely complex and risky medical treatments that are sometimes involved, this appears extremely unfortunate.\"\n\nThe report makes 15 recommendations, including ending cosmetic genital surgeries on infants and children and providing for legal oversight of individual cases.\n\nOrganisation Intersex International Australia welcomed the report, saying that, \n\nIn 2017, Amnesty International published a report condemning \"non-emergency, invasive and irreversible medical treatment with harmful effects\" on children born with variations of sex characteristics in Germany and Denmark. It found that surgeries take place with limited psychosocial support, based on gender stereotypes, but without firm evidence. Amnesty International reported that \"there are no binding guidelines for the treatment of intersex children\".\n\nIn July 2017, Human Rights Watch and interACT published a report on medically unnecessary surgeries on intersex children, “I Want to Be Like Nature Made Me”, based on interviews with intersex persons, families and physicians. The report states that:\nThe report found that intersex medical interventions persist as default advice from doctors to parents, despite some change in some regions of the U.S. and claims of improved surgical techniques, resulting in an uneven situation where care differs and a lack of standards of care, but paradigms for care are still based on socio-cultural factors including expectations of \"normality\" and evidence in support of surgeries remains lacking. \"Nearly every parent\" in the study reported pressure for their children to undergo surgery, and many reported misinformation. The report calls for a ban on \"surgical procedures that seek to alter the gonads, genitals, or internal sex organs of children with atypical sex characteristics too young to participate in the decision, when those procedures both carry a meaningful risk of harm and can be safely deferred.\" The report was acknowledged as an important contribution to research by the American Academy of Pediatrics, Associated Press reported on the report and opposition to a ban by CARES Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "35260454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35260454", "title": "Karnataka Wakf Board Land Scam", "text": "Karnataka Wakf Board Land Scam\n\nThe Karnataka Wakf Board Land Scam concerns the alleged misappropriation of in Indian property funds, made public by a report submitted by the Karnataka State Minorities Commission in 2012.\n\nIn March 2012, Anwar Manippady, the Chairman of the Karnataka State Minorities Commission submitted a report to the chief minister of Karnataka state, D.V. Sadananda Gowda, which alleged that 27,000 acres of land controlled by the Karnataka Wakf Board had either been misappropriated or allocated illegally. The value of the land has been estimated at Rs. 2 trillion (short scale) (US$39 billion).\n\nThe Karnataka Wakf Board is a Muslim charitable trust that manages and oversees property that has typically been donated for the use of the poor. The report commissioned by Manippady alleges that the Karnataka Wakf Board had allowed almost 50% of its land to be misappropriated by politicians and board members, in collusion with the real estate mafia for a fraction of its market value.\n\nManippady has recommended that the government established a committee to investigate corrupt activities on the Wakf Board and appoint a task force to recover properties that have been illegally sold by the Wakf Board. The Income Tax Department has already initiated a probe into this.\n\n"}
{"id": "26255260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26255260", "title": "Kim Seong-su", "text": "Kim Seong-su\n\nKim Seong-su (김성수, 金性洙; October 11, 1891 – February 18, 1955) was a Korean educator, independence activist, journalist, entrepreneur, politician and calligrapher, and the Vice President of South Korea from 1951–1952. He founded Korea University and Dong-A Ilbo. Kim was born in Gochang county, North Jeolla province. Its nickname was Inchon (인촌; 仁村; \"good village\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "953129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=953129", "title": "Kotobagari", "text": "Kotobagari\n\nAnother example is a school janitor in Japan used to be called a \"kozukai-san\" (小使いさん \"chore person\"). Some felt that the word had a derogatory meaning, so it was changed to \"yōmuin\" (用務員 \"task person\"). Now \"yōmuin\" is considered demeaning, so there is shift to use \"kōmuin\" (校務員 \"school task member\") or \"kanrisagyōin\" (管理作業員 \"maintenance member\") instead.\n\nOther examples of words which have become unacceptable include the replacement of the word \"hyakushō\" (百姓) for farmer with \"nōka\" (農家). Since World War II, the word \"shina\" (支那) for China written in kanji has been recognized as derogatory, and has been largely superseded by the Japanese pronunciation of the endonym, \"Chūgoku\" (中国) or with \"Shina\" written in katakana (シナ). In the 1960s, the Sino-Japanese word meaning \"Mongol\" was recognized for its connotation of a \"stupid, ignorant, or immature\" person (c.f. Mongoloid), and the ethnic group is now called by the katakana .\n\nKotobagari has led to some confusing terminology.\n\nNHK, the Japanese Broadcasting Company, runs a Korean language study program, but the language is called \"Hangul\" to avoid being politically incorrect. This is a result of both the North and South Korean governments demanding that the program be called by the name of one country. North Korea wanted the show to be called \"Chōsen language\" (朝鮮語) taken from its full name, 朝鮮民主主義人民共和国 or Democratic People's Republic of Korea. South Korea wanted \"Kankoku language\" (韓国語) from 大韓民国 or Republic of Korea. As a compromise, \"Hangul\" was selected and Korean is referred to as \"the language on this program\" or \"this language\", but this has led to the use of the neologism \"Hangul language\" (ハングル語) to refer to the Korean language; which is technically incorrect since hangul itself is a writing system, not a language, and the writing system has also been used for other languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "58216864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58216864", "title": "Kuyper cabinet", "text": "Kuyper cabinet\n\nThe Kuyper cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 1 August 1901 until 17 August 1905. The cabinet was formed by the political party Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP) and Independent Catholics (I) after the election of 1901. The right-wing cabinet was a minority government in the House of Representatives. Abraham Kuyper, the Leader of the Anti-Revolutionary Party was Prime Minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "373867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373867", "title": "Language policy", "text": "Language policy\n\nMany countries have a language policy designed to favor or discourage the use of a particular language or set of languages. Although nations historically have used language policies most often to promote one official language at the expense of others, many countries now have policies designed to protect and promote \nregional and ethnic languages whose viability is threatened. Indeed, whilst the existence of linguistic minorities within their jurisdiction has often been considered to be a potential threat to internal cohesion, States also understand that providing language rights to minorities may be more in their long term interest, as a means of gaining citizens' trust in the central government.\n\nLanguage policy is what a government does either officially through legislation, court decisions or policy to determine how languages are used, cultivate language skills needed to meet national priorities or to establish the rights of individuals or groups to use and maintain languages. The scope of language policy varies in practice from State to State. This may be explained by the fact that language policy is often based on contingent historical reasons. Likewise, States also differ as to the degree of explicitness with which they implement a given language policy. The French Toubon law is a good example of explicit language policy. The same may be said for the Charter of the French Language in Quebec.\n\nThe preservation of cultural and linguistic diversity in today's world is a major concern to many scientists, artists, writers, politicians, leaders of linguistic communities, and defenders of linguistic human rights. More than half of the 6000 languages currently spoken in the world are estimated to be in danger of disappearing during the 21st century. Many factors affect the existence and usage of any given human language, including the size of the native speaking population, its use in formal communication, and the geographical dispersion and the socio-economic weight of its speakers. National language policies can either mitigate or exacerbate the effects of some of these factors.\n\nFor example, according to Ghil'ad Zuckermann, \"Native tongue title and language rights should be promoted. The government ought to define Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander vernaculars as official languages of Australia. We must change the linguistic landscape of Whyalla and elsewhere. Signs should be in both English and the local indigenous language. We ought to acknowledge intellectual property of indigenous knowledge including language, music and dance.\"\n\nThere are many ways in which language policies can be categorized. It was elaborated by Université Laval sociolinguist Jacques Leclerc for the French-language Web site \"L'aménagement linguistique dans le monde\" put on line by the CIRAL in 1999. The collecting, translating and classifying of language policies started in 1988 and culminated in the publishing of \"Recueil des législations linguistiques dans le monde\" (vol. I to VI) at Presses de l'Université Laval in 1994. The work, containing some 470 language laws, and the research leading to publication, were subsidised by the Office québécois de la langue française. In April 2008, the Web site presented the linguistic portrait and language policies in 354 States or autonomous territories in 194 recognised countries.\n\n\nDirections of language policies:\n\n\nSome case studies:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3265565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3265565", "title": "List of African-American Republicans", "text": "List of African-American Republicans\n\nThe following is a list of African-American Republicans, past and present. This list is limited to black Americans who have worked in a direct, professional capacity in politics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10946057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10946057", "title": "List of Ghana governments", "text": "List of Ghana governments\n\nThis is a list of the governments of Ghana. Prior to independence, Ghana was under colonial rule in various forms including direct or indirect British rule. On February 12, 1951, the first Ghanaian government or cabinet, dominated by native Ghanaians was formed in the run up to independence on March 6, 1957. since then, Ghana has had a mix of democratically elected governments as well as military ones. It has had a one party state status between 1964 and 1966 while some of the military governments have had extensive civilian involvement such as the Provisional National Defence Council governments.\n\n"}
{"id": "13893644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13893644", "title": "List of socialist newspapers in Sweden", "text": "List of socialist newspapers in Sweden\n\nThe following is a list of Socialist newspapers in Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "950307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950307", "title": "Memory hole", "text": "Memory hole\n\nA memory hole is any mechanism for the alteration or disappearance of inconvenient or embarrassing documents, photographs, transcripts or other records, such as from a website or other archive, particularly as part of an attempt to give the impression that something never happened. The concept was first popularized by George Orwell's dystopian novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", where the Party's Ministry of Truth systematically re-created all potential historical documents, in effect, re-writing all of history to match the often-changing state propaganda. These changes were complete and undetectable.\n\nIn \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" the memory hole is a small chute leading to a large incinerator used for :censorship:\n\n\"Nineteen Eighty-Four\"'s protagonist Winston Smith, who works in the Ministry of Truth, is routinely assigned the task of revising old newspaper articles in order to serve the propaganda interests of the government. For example, Smith may be called to retroactively change a statement about food rationing to reflect new policies.\n\nThe memory hole is referenced while O'Brien tortures Smith; O'Brien produces evidence of a coverup by the Party, exciting Smith that such documentation exists. However, O'Brien then destroys the evidence in the memory hole and denies not only the existence of the evidence but also any memory of his actions. Smith realizes that this is doublethink in action, as O'Brien has actively suppressed his memory of both a politically inconvenient fact and his action taken to destroy the evidence of it.\n\nInline\n\nGeneral\n"}
{"id": "56064924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56064924", "title": "Mike Buchanan (politician)", "text": "Mike Buchanan (politician)\n\nGordon Michael Alexander Buchanan (born December 1957) is the Leader of a political party, Justice for Men and Boys (and the Women Who Love Them) (J4MB), in the United Kingdom. He is also a media commentator for the men's rights movement.\n\nBuchanan was a company director for Link Procurement Services Ltd from 1999 to 2010, and also for Legal Procurement Services Ltd from 2005 to 2008.\n\nHe also worked as a consultant for the Conservative Party, but left the party in 2009 after David Cameron announced his approval of all-women shortlists for selecting parliamentary candidates, accusing Cameron of being \"relentlessly pro-female and anti-male\" in his policies and comments.\n\nIn April 2012, he began the 'Campaign for Merit in Business' arguing against increasing gender diversity in the boardroom (GDITB). The campaign submitted written evidence to a House of Lords European Union Sub-Committee on the Internal Market, Infrastructure and Employment which was investigating ‘Women on Boards’. The sub-committee also heard from the campaign's Research Director, Michael Klein. The sub-committee found that \"[a] more balanced board [would] be able to tap into the wealth of available talent in the labour market, provide a broader spectrum of ideas, better reflect a company's customer base and improve corporate governance.\", but went on to say, \"that quotas should not be resorted to until all other options have been exhausted.\"\n\nLater in the same year, Buchanan appeared before the Business, Innovation and Skills Committee's House of Commons inquiry, 'Women in the Workplace', describing himself as the campaign's Chief Executive, and stating that as of November 2012 the campaign consisted of ten members. In written evidence to the inquiry, he cited five longitudinal studies which he entitled \"'Improving' Gender Diversity on Boards Leads to a Decline in Corporate Performance: The Evidence\". In response to the committee's report the coalition Government said the report, \"[reflected] the view of the Government and the Women's Business Council that there is a clear benefit from ensuring that those women who want to work, or want to work more hours, are able to contribute fully to the economy.\"\n\nBuchanan also began the Anti-Feminism League in 2012. A year later, its website was merged into the Campaign for Merit in Business and the political party, Justice for Men and Boys.\n\nThe political party Justice for Men and Boys (and the Women Who Love Them) J4MB for short, which Buchanan leads, was founded on 6 February 2013, and registered with the Electoral Commission on 21 February 2013.\n\nBuchanan has said he established the party because \"the state is anti-male\" and considers the male sex to be \"pretty much subhuman\". According to him, \"legislation is routinely drafted to advantage women and disadvantage men\" while \"boys are being relentlessly disadvantaged by an ever more feminized education system\". He has also formed such groups as the Anti-Feminism League and Men Shouldn’t Marry.\n\nJ4MB describes itself as \"the only political party in the English-speaking world campaigning for the human rights of men and boys\" and as being anti-feminist. \"Feminism is a hatred, and it should be a badge of shame\", Buchanan has said. According to him: \"It’s a very well documented feminist objective of 40 years to destroy the nuclear family\", and feminism \"is a deeply vile, corrupting ideology and the idea it's a benign movement about gender equality is dangerous nonsense\". He says: \"All feminist narratives are one or more of the following – conspiracy theories, fantasies, lies, delusions or myths\".\n\nThe party issues awards for \"lying feminist of the month\" to female journalists, \"toxic feminist of the month\" and \"whiny feminist of the month\". Its website includes a link to an article entitled \"13 reasons women lie about being raped\".\n\nIn its manifesto for the 2015 general election, the party explored twenty areas in which it believes the human rights of men and boys in the UK are being violated. In this document, the party advocated compulsory paternity tests, cutting funds intended to encourage women to enter science, and cutting the abortion limit for women whose pregnancy threatens their mental health from 24 to 13 weeks. Parents should be able to send their sons to schools with only male teachers because female teachers are assumed to favour girls in the awarding of marks. They also advocate that men should be able to retire earlier than women, because males work harder and die younger. The section on sexual abuse concentrates on female offenders, and the issue of rape and assaults annually committed against women in the UK is avoided. The higher level of male suicide is blamed on the state for favouring women over men.\n\nThe party stood for election for the first time at the 2015 general election, with two candidates in Nottinghamshire seats. Party leader Mike Buchanan stood in Ashfield against the Shadow Minister for Women and Equalities, Gloria De Piero. Buchanan came last with 153 votes out of 47,409 cast. Ray Barry stood in Broxtowe, against sitting Conservative MP Anna Soubry, and also came last with 63 votes out of 53,440 cast.\n\nIf Labour had formed a government in 2015, Buchanan said its leading female politicians would have been given \"free rein to roll out yet more radical feminist agendas, teaching schoolboys to be feminists, ie brainwashing them into becoming lifelong unquestioning slaves to women\".\n\nThe party co-hosted the 2016 International Conference on Men's Issues (ICMI16) in London, between 8 and 10 July 2016 in association with A Voice for Men. Conservative member of parliament Philip Davies, a member of the Justice Select Committee, spoke to the conference and asserted that the criminal justice system favours women's over men's rights. Davies was not paid for his appearance at the conference.\n\nJenny Earle, director of Prison Reform Trust’s programme for reducing women’s imprisonment in response said, \"The evidence is not that women are treated more leniently. In fact they are twice as likely as men to receive a custodial sentence for a first offence, and the main offence for which women are imprisoned is theft and shoplifting\".\n\nBuchanan announced that he was not standing in the United Kingdom general election, 2017, although he had previously intended to be a candidate in Maidenhead against Theresa May, the Prime Minister.\n\nThe 2018 International Conference on Men's Issues (ICMI18), again in association with A Voice for Men, was due to have taken place at St Andrew's Stadium, the home of Birmingham City Football Club, between 6 and 8 July 2018. However, in early November 2017 the club in a statement said that \"after certain details concerning the organisers came to light, the Club investigated further and concluded this is not something we want to be associated with\" and that it had been \"misled at the time of booking\". Buchanan initially said he still intended for the conference to go ahead at St Andrew’s as he felt he had \"a perfectly good and legally binding contract\". He has since decided to seek a new venue either in Birmingham or London. He announced on his party's website on 1 December 2017, that a contract had been signed with a new venue in London, for a conference on 20–22 July 2018. Three days after the conference finished \"openDemocracy\" revealed the venue was the ExCeL.\n\nThe Electoral Commission report on expenditure by political parties in the UK General Election 2015 noted that, for political parties with financial returns of less than £250,000, Justice for Men and Boys was one of the top ten highest spending with a total expenditure of £11,423.\n\nThe party's full accounts since inception are as follows:\n\nGeneral election, 7 May 2015\nBuchanan campaigns against male genital mutilation (MGM) claiming that it breaches the Offences against the Person Act 1861, he includes \"the non-therapeutic [e.g. religious] circumcision of male minors\" in his definition of MGM and is critical of the media focus on female genital mutilation arguing that, \"[t]he foreskin is a biological equivalent to the clitoral hood, not the hymen.\"\n\nIn July 2018 the High Court in London upheld Buchanan's conviction for . Buchanan was arrested in June 2016 during a protest against male circumcision and convicted in October 2016. Rejecting Buchanan's appeal the judge, Lord Justice Hickinbottom, said, \"Buchanan had been perfectly legitimately protesting on the pavement. But he had then walked alone into the road and stood in front of cars as they tried to pass at the end of the working day. Standing there clearly put him at risk of serious injury - and he understood that risk, and was determined to take it - but it also put others at risk of injury or risked damage to property.\" The court also added a further £2,424 to his court bill of £3,603, bringing it to a total of £6,027.\n\nThe former businessman has made a number of appearances in the media including: arguing against more women on corporate boards (\"Daily Politics\"); discussing sexism with Caroline Criado-Perez (\"This Morning\"); discussing Justice for Men and Boys' 2015 election manifesto (\"Sunday Politics, East Midlands\"); considering the question \"does absence of refusal to have sex amount to consent?\" (\"The Big Questions\"); discussing politics with a feminist (\"Sunday Politics, East Midlands\"); discussing junior barrister Charlotte Proudman's rebuke of Alexander Carter-Silk, a senior City solicitor for complimenting her on her LinkedIn profile photograph (\"Sky News\"); appearing on a documentary about sexism (\"BBC Three\"); discussing whether you can be a successful working mother (\"Sky News\"); discussing Nottinghamshire Police's decision to become the first police force within the UK to begin recording misogyny as a hate crime (\"Victoria Derbyshire\"); discussing the gender pay gap, citing a blog by William Collins (\"The Roundtable\"); discussing the #MeToo phenomenon (\"Sunday Morning Live\"); discussing the allocation of chores between genders, advocating Catherine Hakim's preference theory (\"Sky News\"); and discussing Swayne O'Pie's campaign to establish a Minister for Men (comparable to the Minister for Women) (\"RT UK\").\n\nAmongst the views he expressed are: \"the number of qualified men for major corporate boards hugely outnumbers the number of qualified women\"; \"all the [major political] parties are institutionally pro-female and anti-male\"; explaining why the UK legal definition of rape states that a woman can not legally rape a man, \"the Sexual Offences Act 2003 was drawn up by radical feminists\"; \"men will support women as stay-at-home partners or parents and women won't\"; \"Charlotte Proudman clearly suffers from an all too common mental health condition 'whiny feminist disorder'\"; \"feminism is a female supremacy movement driven by misandry, the hatred of men, it's a vile ideology\"; \"this whole narrative about work being fulfilling, and exciting, and interesting, and looking after children being stressful and mundane, it's a feminist narrative that just doesn't make sense for the vast majority of women\"; \"I don't think any sane person believe that wolf-whistling is evidence of mysogny, only feminists could believe such a ridiculous thing [...] because it's the sign of a man's admiration for a woman\"; \"Martin Fiebert [list of] hundreds of studies show that women are at least as physically aggressive towards oppostite sex partners as men\"; \"[w]e know that both male and female teachers have an in-built bias towards marking girls better than boys\"; and \"[f]eminism is not about gender equality it is about ever more privileging of women and always has been\".\n\nBuchanan is twice divorced, and has two daughters.\n\n\nBuchanan has also published several books through his own publishing company, LPS Publishing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49054665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49054665", "title": "Military cabinet", "text": "Military cabinet\n\nA military cabinet is any cabinet composed of members of the military. It may be an advisory body (staff) to a sovereign, head of government or other functionary, such as a minister of war, or it may be the executive cabinet of a military government.\n\nIn France, both the prime minister and the minister of defence have their own military cabinets (\"cabinets militaires\").\nHistorically, the rulers of France's colonies, such as the Resident-General in Morocco and the Governor-General of Indochina, had their own military cabinets.\n"}
{"id": "8742500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8742500", "title": "Ministry of Culture and Tourism (Turkey)", "text": "Ministry of Culture and Tourism (Turkey)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture and Tourism () is a government ministry of the Republic of Turkey, responsible for culture and tourism affairs in Turkey. Revolving fund management of the ministry is carried by DÖSİMM. On January 25, 2013, Ömer Çelik was appointed as minister following a cabinet change succeeding Ertuğrul Günay, who was in office since 2008.\n\nOne of the responsibilities of the ministry is the preservation of manuscripts, so they are available and accessible to researchers.\n\nIn promoting the country, the ministry often created promotional films for the country. In 2015, the ministry gained controversy after axing a scene from a $4 million-dollar promotional involving Julianne Moore due to her allegedly \"poor acting\". Ruhsar Demirel, of the Nationalist Movement Party, asked social affairs minister Ayşenur İslam: \"How reasonable do you find promoting Turkey with the body of such names and women? How do you find, as a woman, giving plenty of money to a Hollywood star to promote Turkey, as if it were the 19th century?\", and other politicians criticised her for a \"depressive persona\". In 2017, alongside Turkish Airlines and Turkish tourism companies, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism helped finance \"Non-Transferable\", a romantic comedy film produced by Brendan Bradley.\n\nIn June 2018, the Ministry has sent a directive to the head of the excavations team in Turkey notifying them that according to a new regulation, 51 percent of archeological excavation teams led by foreign crews should consist of Turkish nationals, the key posts in excavations such as archeologist, anthropologist, art historian, restaurateur, architect, and photographer, should be reserved for Turkish citizens.\n\n"}
{"id": "52770171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52770171", "title": "MyDemocracy.ca", "text": "MyDemocracy.ca\n\nMydemocracy.ca is a public consultation commissioned by the Canadian federal government. It is intended to inform electoral reform. Replacing the existing first-past-the-post system with another voting system, before the next election, was a 2015 election promise.\n\nThe consultation was first reported publicly in early November 2016, with notices arriving by mail at the beginning of December. The survey was originally scheduled to end on December 30, but has since been extended to January 15, 2017.\n\nA small pilot study (4,273 subjects) ran between October 23, 2016 and November 22, 2016. The pilot study does not seem to have been registered or reported.\n\nA government official described the consultation as neither a referendum, a survey, nor a poll. The MyDemocracy.ca FAQ calls it \"...more than just a survey. MyDemocracy.ca is a public engagement and education platform.\"\n\nThere have been calls for a referendum, as recommended in the Canadian House of Commons Special Committee on Electoral Reform's report.\n\nThe website does not ask direct questions about subjects' preferences for specific voting systems. Instead, it asks about preferences for features of electoral systems. No one voting system can have all features, so it explicitly asks about trade-offs.\n\nThis approach has been criticized, particularly by proponents of proportional representation, with Fair Vote Canada publishing its own interpretations of the questions in terms of voting systems.\n\nMyDemocracy.ca uses answers to group the visitor into categories:\n\nThese categories were derived from a pilot study of 4,273 Canadians over the age of 18. Weighted data from the pilot study was used to created these five categories:\n\nLatent clusters were identified using a finite mixture model, where the number of components was determined through a dissimilarity-based partitioning method. The mixture model itself was defined such that all within-component covariance matrices were assumed to be diagonal, meaning that the [eight] constitutive factors were assumed to be locally independent. Cluster variances were set to have equal shape, volume and orientation (an \"EEI\" model).\nThe consultation parallels other consultations. The all-party Canadian House of Commons Special Committee on Electoral Reform held country-wide consultations, which went into a December 1 report. These included consultations through MPs, with MPs of all parties urged to hold townhall meetings with their constituents. Canadians were also urged to hold their own consultation meetings, and sent the results to the government; a Canadian federal electoral reform dialogue hosting guide was released.\n\nInformation given on the site is covered under the Privacy Act and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.\n\nThe FAQ initially stated that people would not be counted unless they gave demographic information, such as household income. Complaints lead to a change in advertised study methodology. People who refuse to give demographic information will now be included in raw figures, but their response will not be weighted and extrapolated to other people with similar demographics\n\nWhile users are not required to give names, their postal code, profession, education, gender, age, language, and membership in certain groups is requested. This is more than enough information to identify a specific person from the data they submit; deanonymization has been demonstrated using only gender, age, and postal code.\n\nThe site also collects IP addresses and \"information such as page requests, browser type, operating system, average time spent on the website, and pixel codes (i.e. which pages you visit on the website)\".\n\nThe possibility of people casting multiple votes has been raised, but Vox Pops Labs has methods they intend using to reject multiple votes.\n\nThe survey was not run by Statistics Canada, the arms-length Canadian government body that typically does surveys, but by Vox Pops Labs. The site is encrypted, with a public key certificate issued by Amazon, to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks. It is hosted by GoDaddy.\n\nThe cost of commissioning Vox Pop Labs to design and run the survey was initially estimated at CAN$250 000, but the final cost was $326 500. The cost of the mail-out of 13 million postcards announcing the plan has not been released, but is estimated at ~CAN$2 million.\n\nThe Elections Canada Chief Electoral Officer estimated the cost of a full referendum at CAN$300 million, and said that he would need to know by December 2016 if a vote was coming. However, he also said that there were possibilities for savings, such as a mail-in ballot, or holding the referendum at the same time as the next federal election, which could plausibly reduce the costs to less than 40 cents per voter (about $15 million).\n"}
{"id": "23533097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23533097", "title": "New Zealand official publications", "text": "New Zealand official publications\n\nSeveral New Zealand Government official publications are frequently quoted by their abbreviation; they have a redirect here so that the source does not need to be defined further. Past copies of most by year or session are held in bound volumes in major public libraries. \n\nThe Appendix to the Journal of the House of Representatives is published annually or by each sitting of Parliament. It includes annual reports of government departments, and various special reports e.g. reports of commissions or Royal Commissions.\n\nMost of the 1860 to 1950 volumes of AJHR have been digitised and are available online at AtoJsOnline.\n\nPublished annually. \n\nThe New Zealand Gazette is published weekly. In the 19th century the New Ulster Gazette, the New Munster Gazette and Gazettes of the various provinces were also published.\n\nThe \"New Zealand Parliamentary Debates\" (Hansard) is published daily when Parliament is in session. Available online, see Hansard.\n\nPublished up to 1951, when the Legislative Council of New Zealand (the Upper House) was abolished.\n"}
{"id": "46846060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46846060", "title": "Odisha Government Schemes List", "text": "Odisha Government Schemes List\n\nThe Government of Odisha has come up with various schemes from time to time for the people of the State. They are detailed below:\n"}
{"id": "26517844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26517844", "title": "Pharmacological Calvinism", "text": "Pharmacological Calvinism\n\nPharmacological Calvinism is a term of disapproval purporting to describe the disapproving or condemning attitude of some Americans to the use of psychiatric medication. The term describes a perceived general distrust of drug use for purposes of restoring or attaining pleasure or happiness; that the only legitimate use of drugs is for the purpose of curing or treating illness and disease. The term was first used in 1972 by psychiatrist Gerald L.Klerman (1929–1992).\n\nPeter D. Kramer defined the concept of pharmacological Calvinism as \"a general distrust of drugs used for non-therapeutic purposes and a conviction that if a drug makes you feel good it must be morally bad\". \n\nKlerman wrote at a time when there was growing public and governmental concern about American drug use, both legal (tranquilizers) and illegal (cannabis, LSD, etc.)\n\nIt has been pointed out that, strictly speaking, Klerman misrepresented Calvinist theology in his use of this term.\n"}
{"id": "55097959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55097959", "title": "Post-Islamism", "text": "Post-Islamism\n\nPost-Islamism is a neologism in political science, the definition \nand applicability of which has led to an intellectual debate. Asef Bayat and Olivier Roy are among the main architects of the idea.\n\nThe term was coined by Iranian political sociologist Asef Bayat, then associate professor of sociology at The American University in Cairo in a 1996 essay published in the journal \"Middle East Critique\".\n\nBayat explained it as \"a condition where, following a phase of experimentation, the appeal, energy, symbols and sources of legitimacy of Islamism get exhausted, even among its once-ardent supporters. As such, post-Islamism is not anti-Islamic, but rather reflects a tendency to resecularize religion.\" It originally pertained only to Iran, where \"post-Islamism is expressed in the idea of fusion between Islam (as a personalized faith) and individual freedom and choice; and post-Islamism is associated with the values of democracy and aspects of modernity\". In this context, the prefix \"post-\" does not have historic connotation, but refers to the critical departure from Islamist discourse. Bayat later pointed in 2007 that post-Islamism is both a \"condition\" and a \"project\".\n\n\"Postmodern Islamism\" and \"New Age Islamism\" are other terms interchangeably used.\n\nFrench politician Olivier Carré used the term in 1991 from a different perspective, to describe the period between the 10th and the 19th centuries, when both Shiite and Sunni Islam \"separated the political-military from the religious realm, both theoretically and in practice\".\n\nIn Iran, the Reformists and the group known as the \"Melli-Mazhabi\" (who are ideologically close to the Freedom Movement) are described as post-Islamists.\n\nThe advent of moderate parties Al-Wasat Party in Egypt, as well as Justice and Development Party in Morocco appeared to resemble emergance of post-Islamism, however scholars rejected that they qualify as such. A similar characterization applies to the Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS).\n\nA 2008 Lowy Institute for International Policy paper suggests that Prosperous Justice Party of Indonesia and Justice and Development Party (AKP) of Turkey are post-Islamist. According to Ahmet T. Kuru and Alfred Stepan (2012), many analysts consider Turkish AKP an example of post-Islamism, similar to Christian democratic parties, but Islamic. However, some scholars such as Bassam Tibi dispute this. İhsan Yılmaz argues that the party's ideology after 2011 is different from that of between 2001 and 2011.\n\nThe idea has been used to describe the \"ideological evolution\" within the Ennahda of Tunisia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12563114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12563114", "title": "Provisional government of Israel", "text": "Provisional government of Israel\n\nThe provisional government of Israel (, translit. \"HaMemshela HaZmanit\") was the temporary cabinet which governed the Jewish community in Mandatory Palestine, and later the newly established State of Israel, until the formation of the first government in March 1949 following the first Knesset elections in January that year.\n\nWith the British Mandate of Palestine scheduled to come to an end on 15 May 1948, the governing body of the Jewish community, the Jewish National Council (JNC), on 2 March 1948 began work on organization of a Jewish provisional government. On 12 April 1948 it formed the Minhelet HaAm (, lit. \"People's Administration\"), all of its members being drawn from Moetzet HaAm (\"People's Council\"), the temporary legislative body set up at the same time. The departmental structure of the JNC served as a basis for the interim government ministries.\n\nOn 12 May, Minhelet HaAm convened to vote on whether to declare independence. Three of the thirteen members were missing, with Yehuda Leib Maimon and Yitzhak Gruenbaum being stuck in Jerusalem, whilst Yitzhak-Meir Levin was in the United States. The meeting started at 1:45 in the afternoon and ended after midnight. The decision was between accepting the American proposal for a truce, or declaring independence. The latter option was put to a vote, with six of the ten members present supporting it:\n\n\nOn 14 May, the day Israel declared independence, Minhelet HaAm became the Provisional government, whilst Moetzet HaAm became the Provisional State Council. The Provisional government was promptly recognised by the United States as the \"de facto\" authority of Israel, followed by Iran (which had voted against the UN partition plan), Guatemala, Iceland, Nicaragua, Romania, and Uruguay. The Soviet Union granted official recognition to Israel on 17 May 1948, followed by Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Ireland, and South Africa. The United States extended \"de jure\" recognition after the first Israeli election, on 31 January 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "52114563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52114563", "title": "Reginald Hawkins", "text": "Reginald Hawkins\n\nReginald Hawkins (1923–2007) was a civil rights activist in Charlotte, NC for most of his life. He was the first African-American to run for Governor of North Carolina. He fought to desegregate Charlotte schools and businesses. His son-in-law was Hamaas Abdul Khaalis whose family was murdered in 1973 and who went on to commit the 1977 Hanafi Siege.\n\nReginald Hawkins was born in Beaufort, NC in 1923. He served as captain in the US Army during World War II. After completing his time in the service he attended Howard University where he got his degree in dentistry in 1948. He also received his MA of Divinity from Johnson C Smith University in 1973. He married Catherine Richardson while he was still in dental school and they had four children.\n\nHawkins and members of the NAACP differed over the best way to end school desegregation. Kelly Alexander wanted to sue the city of Charlotte over civil injustice. Hawkins believed that a confrontational approach was best through utilizing media coverage to help mobilize citizens, arguing \"The only way to move forward is to engage bigots in direct controversy within their own community. In order to make his point about the only way to move forward, Hawkins escorted Dorthy Counts, a young black girl to Harding High School, a white school in Charlotte. On September 4, 1957 Hawkins and Counts walked through a shower of spit and insults to integrate the first Mecklenburg County School. His actions that day created a lot of stir in both the white and African- American neighborhoods,creating a national name for Hawkins. From then on Hawkins became a prominent civil rights activist in Charlotte. In 1961 Hawkins led a boycott of Irwin Avenue Junior High School. He urged African-American Students to stay home instead of attending a second rate educational institution.\n\nDue to his disagreement with NAACP policies and in an attempt to distance himself from their \"communist\" label, Hawkins resigned his membership in 1958 and created the Mecklenburg Organization for Political Affairs (MOPA). MOPA used community activists within the African -American community to call for desegregation. Members took part in marches, picketing, protests, boycotts, and sit-in's, usually near schools or hospitals in the Charlotte area.Hawkins work helped successfully integrate many restaurants downtown including those in Belk's and Ivey's department stores.\n\nIn 1962 Hawkins filed suit against the North Carolina Dental Society for discrimination due to the fact they would not let him practice at Charlotte Memorial Hospital. He frequently led demonstrations outside the Mercy, Charlotte Memorial , Presbyterian and Good Samaritan hospitals in the Charlotte area. These demonstrations usually attracted a lot of press and generated controversy in the medical community. Hawkins continued to protest by writing Attorney General Robert Kennedy claiming that the hospitals were breaking their nondiscrimination policy that was one of the conditions of them receiving federal funding. By the end of 1962 the Department of Health ordered Memorial to desegregate their maternity and dentistry wards. Hawkins continued to protest until 1963 when the hospital declared an open door policy for all patients.\n\nOn November 22, 1965 four bombs exploded across Charlotte in the span of about 15 minutes. Hawkins home was hit as well as the homes of Kelly Alexander Sr, president of the NAACP, Fred Alexander, first African American City Council man, and Julius Chambers, a civil rights lawyer. The bombings caught the attention of the local news and put Charlotte into the violent category that cities like Birmingham and Jackson had already been placed in. No one was ever arrested for the bombings even though there was a state wide man hunt and the FBI still holds an open file on the event. Many people believe the bombings were resistance to efforts of desegregation that all four men were part of.\n\nHe also helped organize the 1963 March on Washington and was a great friend to Martin Luther King Jr. King was originally scheduled to stop in Charlotte and speak at one of Hawkins campaign events, but changed his plans and went to Memphis instead, where he was assassinated only a few days later.\n\nIn 1968 Hawkins announced his campaign for governor of North Carolina. His political actions had earned him many friends but also many enemies. He lost the Democratic primary to Robert W. Scott in a three-way race, earning 18.52% of the vote; Scott went on to win the election. He ran again governor again in 1972 and lost in the Democratic primary, winning 8.16% of the vote in a six-way race; the winner of the primary, Skipper Bowles, lost in the general election to Republican candidate James Holshouser. Even though he did not win, Hawkins' campaigns were symbolically important, showing that African-Americans did have the ability to run for office and try to make political changes.\n\nThroughout his life Hawkins was an ardent supporter of equal rights and integration. He continued his work, giving speeches and calling for change right up until his death in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "21354172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21354172", "title": "Religious affiliations of Vice Presidents of the United States", "text": "Religious affiliations of Vice Presidents of the United States\n\nThe following is a list of religious affiliations of Vice Presidents of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11128526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11128526", "title": "Scientifically based research", "text": "Scientifically based research\n\nScientifically based research (SBR) is the required standard in professional development and the foundation of academic instruction under the guidelines of No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB).\n\nThe definition of what should be considered to be \"scientifically based\" has been the subject of a great deal of controversy, particularly relating to the Reading First program authorized under NCLB. The first time the concept appeared in Federal legislation was in the Reading Excellence Act, and subsequently the term appeared in the Comprehensive School Reform program authorized for many years on the annual appropriations bills.\n\nNCLB, however, marked the first time that the idea that education practice should be scientifically based became a central feature of major federal education legislation. Within the Act, the Reading First program became the standard bearer for this concept – or its misapplication. After publishing a series of 7 reports on the mismanagement of Reading First – and referring the matter to the Justice Department – the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) requested that the US Congress clarify what is meant by scientifically based, and whether it is sufficient to contain elements that have been researched, or whether it's necessary for a program's efficacy to have itself been researched.\n\nSince the 2001 passage of NCLB, various efforts have been undertaken both by the US government and by private businesses to create databases of such scientifically based, or scientifically proven, programs. Examples of these databases include the What Works Clearinghouse, a program of the federal Institute of Education Sciences that has been criticized for its questionable standards and extremely slow review process; the Doing What Works web site, an attempt to address criticisms of the WWC; and the Best Evidence Encyclopedia, a grant-funded site operating under the Center for Data-Driven Reform in Education. This site, known as the BEE, synthesizes the available research on specific education programs in several formats, including summaries directed to educators. \n\n"}
{"id": "48508959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48508959", "title": "Thelma Dale Perkins", "text": "Thelma Dale Perkins\n\nThelma Dale Perkins (1915-2014) was an African-American activist. Her maternal uncle was Frederick Douglass Patterson. She joined the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, the Liberal Club, which \"advocated for the integration of African Americans\" into the greater society, the Southern Negro Youth Congress, and the American Youth Congress. As a member of the American Youth Congress she went to the White House for \"chats\" sponsored by First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt to discuss the issues facing young people. She graduated from Howard University in 1936. She worked for E. Franklin Frasier on a National Youth Administration Fellowship, and worked for the federal government, but as she recalled, \"I resigned from the government rather than sign a loyalty oath and accepted the job of National Secretary of the National Negro Congress in New York City.\" In 1945 she attended the founding meeting of the Women's International Democratic Federation, held in Paris.\n\nShe was friends with Paul Robeson and his wife Eslanda Robeson, and worked as managing editor for \nPaul's \"Freedom\" newspaper, and was involved in a campaign to get his passport restored. She wrote a tribute to Paul Robeson in the book \"Paul Robeson: The Great Forerunner\" (1998), by the editors of Freedomways. She was a manager of community relations for CIBA-GEIGY Corporation, where she initiated and developed the \"Exceptional Black Scientist\" series, which was nationally recognized. \n\nShe married Lawrence Rickman Perkins Jr., in 1957, and adopted two babies, Lawrence Dale Perkins and Patrice Dale Perkins.\n\nIn the Dale/Patterson Family papers in the Anacostia Community Museum Archives there is a small collection related to her, donated by her niece Dianne Dale. \n\n\"Radicalism at the Crossroads: African American Women Activists in the Cold War\", by Dayo Gore (2011) [about Thelma Dale Perkins and others]\n"}
{"id": "7126720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7126720", "title": "Tămădău affair", "text": "Tămădău affair\n\nThe Tămădău affair (, \"Înscenarea de la Tămădău\" - \"the Tămădău frameup\" - or \"Fuga de la Tămădău\" - \"the Tămădău flight\") was an incident that took place in Romania in the summer of 1947, the source of a political scandal and show trial.\n\nIt was provoked when an important number of National Peasants' Party (PNŢ) leaders, including party vice president Ion Mihalache, had been offered a chance to flee Romania, where the Communist Party (PCR), the main force inside the Petru Groza government, already had a tight grip on power with backing from the Soviet Union (\"see Soviet occupation of Romania\"). The affair signalled some of the first official measures taken against opposition parties, as a step leading to the proclamation of a People's Republic at the end of the same year (\"see Communist Romania\").\n\nThe PCR victory in the 1946 general election, achieved through widespread electoral fraud, was followed by the first attempts at anti-Communist resistance (including large rallies, and the creation of a \"military circle\" led by Mihalache).\n\nAs the main adversary of Stalinism and committed supporter of the Western Allies, the PNŢ was the main target for PCR hostility. According to journalist Victor Frunză, PNŢ party president Iuliu Maniu was already targeted for having backed attempts (during World War II) by the \"Conducător\" Marshal Ion Antonescu to sign a separate peace with the United Kingdom and the United States (\"see Romania during World War II\"). In late October 1946, the PNŢ entered into open conflict with the authorities; the first volley was to send a \"Report\" to the United Nations, heavily critical of Soviet policies (the text was subject to censorship inside Romania).\n\nThe Communist press alleged that the National Peasants' Party had been organizing a wide network of armed resistance (groups cited in that context may have indeed existed as early as 1947, and probably merged into the resistance movement of the 1950s). At the same time, the Communists approached several PNŢ politicians with offers to join the Communists in administrative positions. Similar offers were made to other parties: the PCR obtained the cooperation of Mihai Ralea, who led the Socialist Peasants' Party, as well as Anton Alexandrescu, Nicolae L. Lupu, and Victor Eftimiu.\n\nSeveral details of the Affair are still unclear. The offer to flee Romania was either quickly discovered (as the PCR alleged), or, as claimed by journalist Victor Frunză, had already been investigated, and, in the hope of discrediting the opposition party, partly facilitated by agents of Teohari Georgescu, Minister of the Interior. In October 1947, Maniu declared that:\n\nThe idea for Mr. Mihalache and a few friends to go abroad was an older one and I had decided at some point to leave myself, in case Mr. Mihalache would not allow himself to leave. This discussion between us lasted for a while, and we were thinking how we could find a means of locomotion. When the question was being debated between the two of us with no one else aware of it, Dr. Emil Haţieganu came to see me. [...] He said: I have two aviators who have a plane at their disposal and have let me know that they have secured 3–4 seats, as they are to leave on an official military mission to Istanbul. I said that I was satisfied by the offer and I that I would designate 3–4 persons to leave.\n\nEarly on the morning of July 14, 1947, at the Tămădău airfield (46 km from Bucharest), Siguranţa Statului and armed soldiers arrested a number of prominent PNŢ politicians, including Mihalache, Nicolae Penescu, Ilie Lazăr, Nicolae Carandino, Dumitru and Eugen Borcea, all of whom were waiting for airplanes to transport them out of the country; the presence of a reporter for the official press, accompanying the soldiers as the arrest was being carried out, was never properly explained.\n\nThe scandal was centered on the charge of treason (\"of the people's interests\"), provoked by the allegation that those arrested had attempted to establish a government in exile. At that time, however, it was not illegal for a citizen of the Kingdom of Romania to leave his country of birth, and there was no official policy hostile to the Western Allies. Calls for a trial of the entire party were voiced by the Communist press (notably, by Silviu Brucan), and Maniu himself, although not present at Tămădău, was argued to have planned the escape. Arrested while under treatment in a sanatorium, Maniu later admitted to the fact, and indicated that he was prepared to assume complete responsibility:\n\n[After Haţieganu's offer] I spoke to Mr. Mihalache, I specifically asked him to make use of this opportunity and he accepted. Indeed, the moral and political responsibility for the departure of Mr. Mihalache and our friends is mine.\n\nHe denied, however, any subversive goal:\n\nThe purpose as designed by me was that, through going abroad, they were to inform foreign countries of the situation in Romania.\n\nLater the same day (July 14, 1947), authorities stormed into the PNŢ headquarters and confiscated all documents held in the archive, a move followed by other searches for documents in various locations. On July 19, the Assembly of Deputies of Romania voted to outlaw the party press (including \"Dreptatea\"), and to lift the parliamentary immunity of PNŢ deputies — the entire party leadership was arrested on the same day, and the party was banned on July 30 (on the basis of a report filed by Teohari Georgescu). In parallel, Soviet authorities handed Teohari Georgescu the handwritten testimony of a former Abwehr agent, Alfred Petermann, who alleged that Maniu had worked as an agent for the British Secret Intelligence Service during the war, keeping contact with Alfred Gardyne de Chastelain.\n\nAll those involved and those judged to have been involved were sentenced to harsh penal labour sentences: Maniu died in Sighet prison in 1953, and Mihalache in Râmnicu Sărat ten years after. Most other important party activists were sentenced with or without trial in the following years; Corneliu Coposu, who was to lead the reestablished party after the Romanian Revolution of 1989, was also arrested and imprisoned in connection with the Tămădău Affair.\n\nConstantin Titel Petrescu, leader of a splinter group of the Social Democratic Party (one which had refused cooperation with the Communists), was also implicated in the trial — it was concluded that he had participated in planning the Tămădău episode, and was himself later tried and convicted on the basis of this and other accusations. The diplomat Neagu Djuvara, who was present at the Romanian Legation in Sweden, was mentioned in one of the testimonies at the trial, and opted not to return to his country.\n\nThe episode was soon after used against the Foreign Minister, Gheorghe Tătărescu, leader of the National Liberal Party-Tătărescu (which, although aligned with the Communists, had by then criticized several Communist policies). He was attacked by the PCR newspaper \"Scînteia\" for having allegedly failed to act against a pro-Maniu conspiracy inside his ministry, unceremoniously demoted, and replaced by the Communist activist Ana Pauker.\n\n"}
{"id": "1219896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219896", "title": "Union of Revolutionary Workers of Austria (Marxist–Leninist)", "text": "Union of Revolutionary Workers of Austria (Marxist–Leninist)\n\nThe Union of Revolutionary Workers of Austria (Marxist–Leninist) () was a communist group in Austria.\n\nIt was founded on June 22, 1968, created through a split of the MLPÖ. The principal leader of the VRAÖ was Alfred Jocha. It published the monthly magazine \"Der Kommunist\" 1967-1970, \"Für die Volksmacht\" (For People's Power) from 1970 to 1997 and again from 1999, and \"Widerspruch\" 1997-1999.\n"}
{"id": "55942655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55942655", "title": "Vice President of Ethiopia", "text": "Vice President of Ethiopia\n\nVice President of Ethiopia was a political position in Ethiopia during the era of People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. The new constitution which established presidency and vice presidency became effective on 12 Sept 1987. Both President and Vice President were elected by legislature. \n"}
{"id": "2595649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2595649", "title": "Weigh house", "text": "Weigh house\n\nA weigh house or weighing house is a public building at or within which goods are weighed. Most of these buildings were built before 1800, prior to the establishment of international standards for weights. As public control of the weight of goods was very important, they were run by local authorities who would also use them for the levying of taxes on goods transported through or sold within the city. Therefore, weigh houses would often be near a market square or town centre.\n\nBetween 1550 and about 1690 people accused of witchcraft were at times brought to a weigh house in order to be subjected to a \"witch test\" to \"prove\" their innocence for payment (as nobody was deemed to be a witch after this test). If a person was found to be lighter than a set weight, he or she was deemed guilty. This is similar to the use of a ducking stool.\n\nWeigh houses were especially common in the Netherlands, Germany, where they are called \"waag\" and \"waage\" respectively (both meaning \"scale\") and Poland (\"waga miejska\", \"town/city scales\", as in Cracow and Posen). Outside the Netherlands and Germany the public weighing usually didn't take place in a special building, but in a town hall, guild hall, courthouse, or the like.\n\nOne of the very few remaining weigh houses still in use is the one in Alkmaar, Netherlands, where the Cheese Market still includes the weighing of the cheeses as a demonstration for tourists.\n\nThe Amsterdam Waag is a remnant of the former city walls in Amsterdam. Constructed in 1488, it was originally one of the city gates, the Sint Anthoniespoort. When the city expanded, the Nieuwmarkt (\"new market\") was created around it and the weighing scales for the market were placed in the former gate. Today the building houses the Waag Society, an ICT research foundation working in the social and cultural domain, and there is a café/restaurant on the ground floor.\n\nThe building carries the oldest plaque in Amsterdam, which reads \"On 28 April 1488 the first stone of this gate was laid\".\n\nThe city walls that the Sint Anthoniespoort was part of were built in the years 1481-1494. These walls have now completely disappeared and the only remnants are this gate, the lower part of another gate, the Regulierspoort (now the Munttoren) and one defence tower, the Schreierstoren. When in the late 16th century the city expanded the wall was torn down and the gate lost its function. The defensive canal and palissade around the gate was turned into a market square. In the process the ground level was raised, so the building is no longer quite as high as it used to be. For the new weighing function the original front and rear gate were connected with a roof.\n\nThe upper floors housed four guilds for some time, namely those of the smiths, painters, masons and surgeons. Each guild had its own entrance tower. In 1632 Rembrandt van Rijn was commissioned to paint the surgeons at work, and the resulting \"The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp\" made his reputation. In 1691 a theatrum anatomicum was added, which became famous for admitting (paying) members of the public to witness human dissections.\n\nAfter the guilds were dissolved around 1795 the building served numerous purposes, later housing a fire brigade and two museums (including the Jewish Historical Museum) before it was handed over to a foundation in 1990. This had plans to partly destroy the building and build an addition designed by Philippe Starck, but the foundation went bankrupt before any plans were carried out. The neighbourhood and monument lovers convinced the Amsterdam city council that the building deserved a better fate. It was decided to restore it in keeping with its medieval background. Waag Society became the principal tenant in 1996.\n\nA number of other Dutch towns also have a weigh house, including Delft, Deventer (with museum), Edam, Enkhuizen, Gouda, Haarlem, Hoorn, Langweer, Leeuwarden, Leiden, Nijmegen, Oudewater (\"Heksenwaag\" = witches' weighing house), Vlaardingen and Zaltbommel. Pieter Post, a Golden Age architect, had his weigh house design chosen for two cities; Gouda, and Leiden:\nSome cities in Belgium still have a \"Stadswaag\", like Kortrijk.\n\nCities in Germany, where such a building (in German called \"Stadtwaage\") still exists, are (among others):\nBraunschweig, Bremen (Bremen Weigh House), Dorsten, Emmerich am Rhein, Kempten, Leipzig, Michelstadt, Osnabrück and Stralsund.\n\nWeigh houses were formerly found in many market towns of Ireland; a notable surviving example is in Gort, County Galway, built in the mid- to late 18th century.\n\nCities in Poland such as Kraków, Poznań, Bochnia and Nysa had or have historical weigh houses.\n\n"}
{"id": "18538544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18538544", "title": "Young Gifted and Talented Programme", "text": "Young Gifted and Talented Programme\n\nThe Young, Gifted & Talented Programme (YG&T) was a United Kingdom government scheme that aimed to enhance the educational development of students between the ages of 4 and 19. The scheme was established in 2002, and scrapped in 2010 in favour of reallocating funds to help disadvantaged students get into University.\n\nWithin the scheme, a young and gifted individual is defined as: \"...children and young people with one or more abilities developed to a level significantly ahead of their year group (or with the potential to develop those abilities)”.\n\nEntrance to the scheme is via a validation process performed by the student's school or college and is based on criteria including:\n\n\nWhile the onus is on schools to determine the size of their gifted and talented population, clear justification for the size of the group and the benefit to all members must be clearly identified. The DCSF uses 10% of any given school population as the assumption of size during the planning process.\n\nThe operations of the programme are outsourced to the CfBT Education Trust who took over the National Programme for Gifted and Talented Education in September 2007 and renamed it to the Young, Gifted & Talented.\n\nThe program also supports the activities of private organisations in providing training activities and materials to the identified student groups.\n\n"}
