{"id": "39374434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39374434", "title": "2045 Initiative", "text": "2045 Initiative\n\nThe 2045 Initiative is a nonprofit organization that develops a network and community of researchers in the field of life extension. It was founded by Russian entrepreneur Dmitry Itskov in February 2011 with the participation of Russian specialists in the field of neural interfaces, robotics, artificial organs and systems.\n\nThe main goal of the 2045 Initiative, as stated on site, is \"to create technologies enabling the transfer of an individual’s personality to a more advanced non-biological carrier, and extending life, including to the point of immortality. We devote particular attention to enabling the fullest possible dialogue between the world’s major spiritual traditions, science and society\".\n\nThe 2045 Initiative has a roadmap for developing cybernetic immortality. The Initiative has the goal for an avatar controlled by a \"brain-computer\" interface to be developed between 2015 and 2020, between 2020 and 2025 creating an autonomous life-support system for the human brain linked to a robot, between 2030 and 2035 creating a computer model of the brain and human consciousness with the means to transfer it into an artificial carrier, and by 2045 create a new era for humanity with holographic bodies.\n\nOne of the featured life-extension projects is to design an artificial humanoid body (called an \"avatar\") and an advanced brain–computer interface system. On the biological side, a life support system will be developed for hosting a human brain inside the avatar and maintaining it alive and functional. A later phase of the project will research into the creation of an artificial brain into which the original individual consciousness may be transferred.\n\nA robotic copy of a human body remotely capable of interpreting commands directly from the mind, and sending information back to the mind in a form that can be interpreted via brain–computer interface. It is estimated to be popularized in or before 2020.\n\nAn avatar in which a human brain is transplanted at the end of one's life. Avatar B has an autonomous system providing life support for the brain and allowing it interaction with the environment, possibly mounted into an existing Avatar A Chassis. Deadline of this phase is year 2025.\n\nAn avatar with an artificial brain to which a human personality is transferred for emulation at the end of one's life. The first successful attempt to upload one's personality to a computer is estimated to happen around 2035.\n\nA hologram- or diagram-like avatar. This is the ultimate goal of this project but is optional since, assuming either the upload is involuntary or all humans chose to upload, biological diseases are prevented in the previous phase, and it is far away from current technological achievement and our understanding on physics.\n\nProfessor George M. Church has complained that \"there's a lot of dots that aren't connected in (Itskov's) plans. It's not a real road map.\" Martine A. Rothblatt, the founder of United Therapeutics, has claimed the Avatar Project is \"no more wild than in the early '60s, when we saw the advent of liver and kidney transplants.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2513911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2513911", "title": "2Mex", "text": "2Mex\n\nAlejandro Ocana, better known by his stage name 2Mex, is a rapper from Los Angeles, California. He is a member of The Visionaries and Of Mexican Descent. He has collaborated with underground hip hop artists such as Jel, Omid, Thavius Beck, Factor, Radioinactive and Isaiah \"Ikey\" Owens. He is a member of the Project Blowed crew, and he is affiliated with Shape Shifters.\n\n2Mex attended the Good Life Cafe open mic nights in 1993. Around that time, he founded Of Mexican Descent with Xololanxinxo.\n\nIn 1998, he released his first album with The Visionaries as well as the first Of Mexican Descent album, and he was featured on the OD (Omid) compilation album \"Beneath the Surface\". In 1999, he was featured (with Xololanxinxo as Of Mexican Descent) on the Fat Jack compilation album \"Cater to the DJ\", and he released his first solo album \"Fake It Till You Make It\" as The Mind Clouders with producer Mums the Word. In 2000, he was featured (as a member of the Afterlife Crew) on the Afterlife Records compilation \"Declaration of an Independent\". He then released \"B-Boys in Occupied Mexico\" on Mean Street in 2001. \"Sweat Lodge Infinite\" was released on Temporary Whatever in 2003. The self-titled album, \"2Mex\", was released in 2004. He released \"My Fanbase Will Destroy You\" on Strange Famous Records in 2010. It features guest appearances from Murs, Prince Po, Busdriver and Nobody.\n\n2Mex is featured in Ava Duvernay's award-winning documentary \"This Is the Life\", chronicling the music movement that was birthed at The Good Life Cafe in South Central, Los Angeles. The Good Life Cafe is the open-mic workshop where he first performed with Of Mexican Descent in 1993.\n\nSolo\n2Mex & Maiselph\n\nThe Visionaries\n\nOf Mexican Descent\n\nThe Mind Clouders\n\nSonGodSuns\n\n$martyr\n\nLook Daggers\n\nThe Returners\n\n2Mex, KeyKool, & LMNO\n\nGuest appearances\n\n"}
{"id": "56763750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56763750", "title": "30 Roc", "text": "30 Roc\n\nSamuel Gloade, professionally known as 30 Roc is an American record producer known for producing mixtapes and albums for music artists. To date he has produced for many artists, including Rae Sremmurd, Lil Yachty, Migos, Plies, Cardi B, Rich Homie Quan, and Kendrick Lamar, among many others. He has produced many songs, most notably T-Wayne's \"Nasty Freestyle\", \"Rake It Up\" by Yo Gotti featuring Nicki Minaj, Cardi B's hit single, \"Bartier Cardi\", which features 21 Savage, \"Rock\" by Plies, and \"King's Dead\" which was performed by Kendrick Lamar, Jay Rock, and Future. Gloade was also an executive producer for Lil Yachty's second studio album, Lil Boat 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "52303169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52303169", "title": "A-Reece", "text": "A-Reece\n\nLehlogonolo Ronald Mataboge (born 27 March 1997), better known by his stage name A-Reece, is a South African hip hop recording artist and songwriter and record producer Located In Gauteng. He is known for his debut hit single, \"Couldn't\" which features award winning rapper emtee..\n\nLehlogonolo Mataboge originates from Pretoria in the Gauteng Province. He started writing music in Primary School following the footsteps of his older brother Phologo Jody Mataboge, known as P-Jay from the hip hop duo B3nchMarQ. He got his stage name \"A-Reece\" from his star sign Aries. In 2014 A-Reece released \"Cassper's Picture\" a song that is inspired by the life of South African rapper and producer Cassper Nyovest. PH Raw, a South African record producer recognized his talent and signed him to \"Raw X Productions\" imprint at the age of 16.\n\nHe released his debut mixtape titled \"Forever King\" on August 2013 and later on released his second project \"Browniez EP\" on October 31, 2014 under Mythron/Raw X Records. In 2015 he was signed to Ambitiouz Entertainment and released his first single \"Couldn't\" under the label featuring Emtee. He released \"Cutaways EP\" on 29 September 2016 which consists of songs that didn't make the cut for his debut album \"Paradise\". His debut album was later released on 21 October 2016 and topped the No.1 spot on iTunes just under 24 hours after its release. to celebrate the anniversary of his debut album he went to release his second studio album \"From Me To You And Only You \". A year later on 21 October 2018 he released an ep titled 'And I'm Only 21' Which is topping charts and it was number 1 on iTunes on the day of release.\n\nAmbitiouz Entertainment went under much scrutiny after artists Fifi Cooper, B3nchMarQ, A-Reece and Flame left the label in a very public and ugly fight. Artist claimed that they decided to part ways with the record label because of financial disagreement, Fifi Cooper went on to say that she had been signed for over two years to the label yet had not received a single cent from her gigs as well as royalties. The record label also went on to remove all of A-Reece's music videos from their YouTube channel.\n"}
{"id": "2406859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2406859", "title": "Adelphogamy", "text": "Adelphogamy\n\nAdelphogamy is a form of sexual partnership between sibling eukaryotes, for example in some species of fungi, flowering plants or ants, or in humans. In sociology, the term \"adelphogamy\" may also refer to fraternal polyandry or to a relationship between a brother and sister.\n"}
{"id": "6242104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6242104", "title": "Argo Aadli", "text": "Argo Aadli\n\nArgo Aadli (born 12 April 1980, in Kunda, Estonia) is an Estonian theatre and film actor. He graduated from the Higher Theatre School of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre in 2002. He has worked as an actor in Tallinn City Theatre where he has performed at least ten productions to date, notably the character of Zahhar in the Anton Chekhov play \"Pianola or The Mechanical Piano\" in 2002. Aside from this he has been involved in several films including \"Names in Marble\" (2002) where he played Konsap) and \"Lotte from Gadgetville\" (2006) where he voiced Albert.\n\n\nFilms\n"}
{"id": "52507691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52507691", "title": "Autogamy", "text": "Autogamy\n\nAutogamy, or self-fertilization, refers to the fusion of two gametes that come from one individual. Autogamy is predominantly observed in the form of self-pollination, a reproductive mechanism employed by many flowering plants. However, species of protists have also been observed using autogamy as a means of reproduction. Flowering plants engage in autogamy regularly, while the protists that engage in autogamy only do so in stressful environments.\n\n\"Paramecium aurelia\" is the most commonly studied protozoan for autogamy. Similar to other unicellular organisms, \"Paramecium aurelia\" typically reproduce asexually via binary fission or sexually via cross-fertilization. However, studies have shown that when put under nutritional stress, \"Paramecium aurelia\" will undergo meiosis and subsequent fusion of gametic-like nuclei. This process, defined as hemixis, a chromosomal rearrangement process, takes place in a number of steps. First, the two micronuclei of Paramecium aurelia enlarge and divide two times to form eight nuclei. Some of these daughter nuclei will continue to divide to create potential future gametic nuclei. Of these potential gametic nuclei, one will divide two more times. Of the four daughter nuclei arising from this step, two of them become anlagen, or cells that will form part of the new organism. The other two daughter nuclei become the gametic micronuclei that will undergo autogamous self-fertilization. These nuclear divisions are observed mainly when the Paramecium aurelia is put under nutritional stress. Research shows that \"Paramecium aurelia\" undergo autogamy synchronously with other individuals of the same species.\n\nIn \"Paramecium tetraurelia\", vitality declines over the course of successive asexual cell divisions by binary fission. Clonal aging is associated with a dramatic increase in DNA damage. When paramecia that have experienced clonal aging undergo meiosis, either during conjugation or automixis, the old macronucleus disintegrates and a new macronucleus is formed by replication of the micronuclear DNA that had just experienced meiosis followed by syngamy. These paramecia are rejuvenated in the sense of having a restored clonal lifespan. Thus it appears that clonal aging is due in large part to the progressive accumulation of DNA damage, and that rejuvenation is due to repair of DNA damage during meiosis that occurs in the micronucleus during conjugation or automixis and reestablishment of the macronucleus by replication of the newly repaired micronuclear DNA.\n\nSimilar to Paramecium aurelia, the parasitic ciliate \"Tetrahymena rostrata\" has also been shown to engage in meiosis, autogamy and development of new macronuclei when placed under nutritional stress. Due to the degeneration and remodeling of genetic information that occurs in autogamy, genetic variability arises and possibly increases an offspring’s chances of survival in stressful environments.\n\n\"Allogromia laticollaris\" is perhaps the best-studied foraminiferan amoeboid for autogamy. \"Allogromia laticollaris\" can alternate between sexual reproduction via cross-fertilization and asexual reproduction via binary fission. The details of the life cycle of Allogromia laticollaris are unknown, but similar to \"Paramecium aurelia\", \"Allogromia laticollaris\" is also shown to sometimes defer to autogamous behavior when placed in nutritional stress. As seen in Paramecium, there is some nuclear dimorphism observed in \"Allogromia laticollaris.\" There are often observations of macronuclei and chromosomal fragments coexisting in \"Allogromia laticollaris.\" This is indicative of nuclear and chromosomal degeneration, a process similar to the subdivisions observed in \"Paramecium aurelia.\" Multiple generations of haploid \"Allogromia laticollaris\" individuals can exist before autogamy actually takes place. The autogamous behavior in Allogromia laticollaris has the added consequence of giving rise to daughter cells that are substantially smaller than those rising from binary fission. It is hypothesized that this is a survival mechanism employed when the cell is in stressful environments, and thus not able to allocate all resources to creating offspring. If a cell was under nutritional stress and not able to function regularly, there would be a strong possibility of its offspring’s fitness being sub-par.\n\nSelf-pollination is an example of autogamy that occurs in flowering plants. Self-pollination occurs when the sperm in the pollen from the stamen of a plant goes to the carpels of that same plant and fertilizes the egg cell present. Self-pollination can either be done completely autogamously or geitonogamously. In the former, the egg and sperm cells that united came from the same flower. In the latter, the sperm and egg cells can come from a different flower on the same plant. While the latter method does blur the lines between autogamous self-fertilization and normal sexual reproduction, it is still considered autogamous self-fertilization.\n\nSelf-pollination can lead to inbreeding depression due to expression of deleterious recessive mutations. Meiosis followed by self-pollination results in little genetic variation, raising the question of how meiosis in self-pollinating plants is adaptively maintained over an extended period in preference to a less complicated and less costly asexual ameiotic process for producing progeny. For instance, \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" is a predominantly self-pollinating plant that has an outcrossing rate in the wild estimated at less than 0.3%, and self-pollination appears to have evolved roughly a million years ago or more. An adaptive benefit of meiosis that may explain its long-term maintenance in self-pollinating plants is efficient recombinational repair of DNA damage.\n\n There are several advantages for the self-fertilization observed in flowering plants and protists. In flowering plants, it is important for some plants not to be dependent on pollinating agents that other plants rely on for fertilization. This is unusual, however, considering that many plant species have evolved to become incompatible with their own gametes. While these species would not be well served by having autogamous self-fertilization as a reproductive mechanism, other species, which do not have self-incompatibility, would benefit from autogamy. Protists have the advantage of diversifying their modes of reproduction. This is useful for a multitude of reasons. First, if there is an unfavorable change in the environment that puts the ability to deliver offspring at risk, then it is advantageous for an organism to have autogamy at its disposal. In other organisms, it is seen that genetic diversity arising from sexual reproduction is maintained by changes in the environment that favor certain genotypes over others.\nAside from extreme circumstances, it is possible that this form of reproduction gives rise to a genotype in the offspring that will increase fitness in the environment. This is due to the nature of the genetic degeneration and remodeling intrinsic to autogamy in unicellular organisms. Thus, autogamous behavior may become advantageous to have if an individual wanted to ensure offspring viability and survival. This advantage also applies to flowering plants. However, it is important to note that this change has not shown to produce a progeny with more fitness in unicellular organisms. It is possible that the nutrition deprived state of the parent cells before autogamy created a barrier for producing offspring that could thrive in those same stressful environments.\n\n In flowering plants, autogamy has the disadvantage of producing low genetic diversity in the species that use it as the predominant mode of reproduction. This leaves those species particularly susceptible to pathogens and viruses that can harm it. In addition, the foraminiferans that use autogamy have shown to produce substantially smaller progeny as a result. This indicates that since it is generally an emergency survival mechanism for unicellular species, the mechanism does not have the nutritional resources that would be provided by the organism if it were undergoing binary fission.\n\n The evolutionary shift from outcrossing to self-fertilization is one of the most frequent evolutionary transitions in plants. About 10-15% of flowering plants are predominantly self-fertilizing.\nSince autogamy in flowering plants and autogamy in unicellular species is fundamentally different, and plants and protists are not related, it is likely that both instances evolved separately. In flowering plants, it is believed that autogamy evolved one million years ago. However, due to the little overall genetic variation that arises in progeny, it is not fully understood how autogamy has been maintained in the tree of life.\n"}
{"id": "451178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451178", "title": "Avida", "text": "Avida\n\nAvida is an artificial life software platform to study the evolutionary biology of self-replicating and evolving computer programs (digital organisms). Avida is under active development by Charles Ofria's Digital Evolution Lab at Michigan State University; the first version of Avida was designed in 1993 by Ofria, Chris Adami and C. Titus Brown at Caltech, and has been fully reengineered by Ofria on multiple occasions since then. The software was originally inspired by the Tierra system.\n\nTierra simulated an evolutionary system by introducing computer programs that competed for computer resources, specifically processor (CPU) time and access to main memory. In this respect it was similar to Core Wars, but differed in that the programs being run in the simulation were able to modify themselves, and thereby evolve. Tierra's programs were artificial life organisms.\n\nUnlike Tierra, Avida assigns every digital organism its own protected region of memory, and executes it with a separate virtual CPU. By default, other digital organisms cannot access this memory space, neither for reading nor for writing, and cannot execute code that is not in their own memory space.\n\nA second major difference is that the virtual CPUs of different organisms can run at different speeds, such that one organism executes, for example, twice as many instructions in the same time interval as another organism. The speed at which a virtual CPU runs is determined by a number of factors, but most importantly, by the \"tasks\" that the organism performs: logical computations that the organisms can carry out to reap extra CPU speed as bonus.\n\nAdami and Ofria, in collaboration with others, have used Avida to conduct research in digital evolution, and the scientific journals \"Nature\" and \"Science\" have published four of their papers.\n\nThe 2003 paper \"The Evolutionary Origin of Complex Features\" describes the evolution of a mathematical equals operation from simpler bitwise operations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "817175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=817175", "title": "Biological dispersal", "text": "Biological dispersal\n\nBiological dispersal refers to both the movement of individuals (animals, plants, fungi, bacteria, etc.) from their birth site to their breeding site ('natal dispersal'), as well as the movement from one breeding site to another ('breeding dispersal').\nDispersal is also used to describe the movement of propagules such as seeds and spores.\nTechnically, dispersal is defined as any movement that has the potential to lead to gene flow. \nThe act of dispersal involves three phases: departure, transfer, settlement and there are different fitness costs and benefits associated with each of these phases.\nThrough simply moving from one habitat patch to another, the dispersal of an individual has consequences not only for individual fitness, but also for population dynamics, population genetics, and species distribution. Understanding dispersal and the consequences both for evolutionary strategies at a species level, and for processes at an ecosystem level, requires understanding on the type of dispersal, the dispersal range of a given species, and the dispersal mechanisms involved.\n\nBiological dispersal may be contrasted with geodispersal, which is the mixing of previously isolated populations (or whole biotas) following the erosion of geographic barriers to dispersal or gene flow (Lieberman, 2005; Albert and Reis, 2011).\n\nDispersal can be distinguished from animal migration (typically round-trip seasonal movement), although within the population genetics literature, the terms 'migration' and 'dispersal' are often used interchangeably.\n\nSome organisms are motile throughout their lives, but others are adapted to move or be moved at precise, limited phases of their life cycles. This is commonly called the dispersive phase of the life cycle. The strategies of organisms' entire life cycles often are predicated on the nature and circumstances of their dispersive phases.\n\nIn general there are two basic types of dispersal:\nDue to population density, dispersal may relieve pressure for resources in an ecosystem, and competition for these resources may be a selection factor for dispersal mechanisms.\n\nDispersal of organisms is a critical process for understanding both geographic isolation in evolution through gene flow and the broad patterns of current geographic distributions (biogeography).\n\nA distinction is often made between natal dispersal where an individual (often a juvenile) moves away from the place it was born, and breeding dispersal where an individual (often an adult) moves away from one breeding location to breed elsewhere.\n\nIn the broadest sense, dispersal occurs when the fitness benefits of moving outweigh the costs.\n\nThere are a number of benefits to dispersal such as locating new resources, escaping unfavorable conditions, avoiding competing with siblings, and avoiding breeding with closely related individuals which could lead to inbreeding depression.\n\nThere are also a number of costs associated with dispersal, which can be thought of in terms of four main currencies: energy, risk, time and opportunity.\nEnergetic costs include the extra energy required to move as well as energetic investment in movement machinery (e.g. wings). Risks include increased injury and mortality during dispersal and the possibility of settling in an unfavorable environment.\nTime spent dispersing is time that often cannot be spent on other activities such as growth and reproduction.\nFinally dispersal can also lead to outbreeding depression if an individual is better adapted to its natal environment than the one it ends up in. In social animals (such as many birds and mammals) a dispersing individual must find and join a new group, which can lead to loss of social rank.\n\n\"Dispersal range\" refers to the distance a species can move from an existing population or the parent organism. An ecosystem depends critically on the ability of individuals and populations to disperse from one habitat patch to another. Therefore, biological dispersal is critical to the stability of ecosystems.\n\nFew species are ever evenly or randomly distributed within or across landscapes. In general, species significantly vary across the landscape in association with environmental features that influence their reproductive success and population persistence. Spatial patterns in environmental features (e.g. resources) permit individuals to escape unfavorable conditions and seek out new locations. This allows the organism to \"test\" new environments for their suitability, provided they are within animal's geographic range. In addition, the ability of a species to disperse over a gradually changing environment could enable a population to survive extreme conditions. (i.e. climate change).\n\nAs the climate changes, prey and predators have to adapt to survive. This poses a problem for many animals, for example the Southern Rockhopper Penguins. These penguins are able to live and thrive in a variety of climates due to the penguins' phenotypic plasticity. However, they are predicted to respond by dispersal, not adaptation this time. This is explained due to their long life spans and slow microevolution. Penguins in the subantarctic have very different foraging behavior than the subtropical waters, it would be very hard to survive and keep up with the fast changing climate because these behaviors took years to shape.\n\nA dispersal barrier may mean that the dispersal range of a species is much smaller than the species distribution. An artificial example is habitat fragmentation due to human land use. Natural barriers to dispersal that limit species distribution include mountain ranges and rivers. An example is the separation of the ranges of the two species of chimpanzee by the Congo River.\n\nOn the other hand, human activities may also expand the dispersal range of a species by providing new dispersal methods (e.g., ships). Many of them become invasive, like rats and stinkbugs, but some species also have a slightly positive effect to human settlers like honeybees and earthworms.\n\nMost animals are capable of locomotion and the basic mechanism of dispersal is movement from one place to another. Locomotion allows the organism to \"test\" new environments for their suitability, provided they are within the animal's range. Movements are usually guided by inherited behaviors.\n\nThe formation of barriers to dispersal or gene flow between adjacent areas can isolate populations on either side of the emerging divide. The geographic separation and subsequent genetic isolation of portions of an ancestral population can result in speciation.\n\nSeed dispersal is the movement or transport of seeds away from the parent plant. Plants have limited mobility and consequently rely upon a variety of dispersal vectors to transport their propagules, including both abiotic and biotic vectors. Seeds can be dispersed away from the parent plant individually or collectively, as well as dispersed in both space and time. The patterns of seed dispersal are determined in large part by the dispersal mechanism and this has important implications for the demographic and genetic structure of plant populations, as well as migration patterns and species interactions. There are five main modes of seed dispersal: gravity, wind, ballistic, water and by animals.\n\nThere are numerous animal forms that are non—motile, such as sponges, bryozoans, tunicates, sea anemones, corals, and oysters. In common, they are all either marine or aquatic. It may seem curious that plants have been so successful at stationary life on land, while animals have not, but the answer lies in the food supply. Plants produce their own food from sunlight and carbon dioxide—both generally more abundant on land than in water. Animals fixed in place must rely on the surrounding medium to bring food at least close enough to grab, and this occurs in the three-dimensional water environment, but with much less abundance in the atmosphere.\n\nAll of the marine and aquatic invertebrates whose lives are spent fixed to the bottom (more or less; anemones are capable of getting up and moving to a new location if conditions warrant) produce dispersal units. These may be specialized \"buds\", or motile sexual reproduction products, or even a sort of alteration of generations as in certain cnidaria.\n\nCorals provide a good example of how sedentary species achieve dispersion. Corals reproduce by releasing sperm and eggs directly into the water. These release events are coordinated by lunar phase in certain warm months, such that all corals of one or many species on a given reef will release on the same single or several consecutive nights. The released eggs are fertilized, and the resulting zygote develops quickly into a multicellular \"planula\". This motile stage then attempts to find a suitable substratum for settlement. Most are unsuccessful and die or are fed upon by zooplankton and bottom dwelling predators such as anemones and other corals. However, untold millions are produced, and a few do succeed in locating spots of bare limestone, where they settle and transform by growth into a polyp. All things being favorable, the single polyp grows into a coral head by budding off new polyps to form a colony.\n\nThe majority of all animals are motile. Although motile animals can, in theory, disperse themselves by their spontaneous and independent locomotive powers, a great many species utilize the existing kinetic energies in the environment, resulting in passive movement. Dispersal by water currents is especially associated with the physically small inhabitants of marine waters known as zooplankton. The term plankton comes from the Greek, πλαγκτον, meaning \"wanderer\" or \"drifter\".\n\nMany animal species, especially freshwater invertebrates, are able to disperse by wind or by transfer with an aid of larger animals (birds, mammals or fishes) as dormant eggs, dormant embryos or, in some cases, dormant adult stages. Tardigrades, some rotifers and some copepods are able to withstand desiccation as adult dormant stages. Many other taxa (Cladocera, Bryozoa, Hydra, Copepoda and so on) can disperse as dormant eggs or embryos. Freshwater sponges usually have special dormant propagules called gemmulae for such a dispersal. Many kinds of dispersal dormant stages are able to withstand not only desiccation and low and high temperature, but also action of digestive enzymes during their transfer through digestive tracts of birds and other animals, high concentration of salts and many kinds of toxicants. Such dormant-resistant stages made possible the long-distance dispersal from one water body to another and broad distribution ranges of many freshwater animals.\n\nDispersal is most commonly quantified either in terms of rate or distance.\n\nDispersal rate (also called migration rate in the population genetics literature) or probability describes the probability that any individual leaves an area or, equivalently, the expected proportion of individual to leave an area.\n\nThe dispersal distance is usually described by a dispersal kernel which gives the probability distribution of the distance traveled by any individual. A number of different functions are used for dispersal kernels in theoretical models of dispersal including the negative exponential distribution, extended negative exponential distribution, normal distribution, exponential power distribution, inverse power distribution, and the two-sided power distribution. The inverse power distribution and distributions with 'fat tails' representing long-distance dispersal events (called leptokurtic distributions) are though to best match empirical dispersal data.\n\nDispersal not only has costs and benefits to the dispersing individual (as mentioned above), but it also has consequences at the level of the population and species as well.\n\nMost populations have a patchy spatial distribution. Dispersal, by moving of individuals between different sub-populations, can increase the overall connectivity of the population, helping to minimize the risk of stochastic extinction, since if a sub-population goes extinct by chance, it is likely to be recolonized if the dispersal rate is high.\nIncreased connectivity can also decrease the degree of local adaptation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1231522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1231522", "title": "Biological immortality", "text": "Biological immortality\n\nBiological immortality (sometimes referred to \"bio-indefinite\" mortality) is a state in which the rate of mortality from senescence is stable or decreasing, thus decoupling it from chronological age. Various unicellular and multicellular species, including some vertebrates, achieve this state either throughout their existence or after living long enough. A biologically immortal living being can still die from means other than senescence, such as through injury or disease.\n\nThis definition of immortality has been challenged in the \"Handbook of the Biology of Aging\", because the increase in rate of mortality as a function of chronological age may be negligible at extremely old ages, an idea referred to as the late-life mortality plateau. The rate of mortality may cease to increase in old age, but in most cases that rate is typically very high. As a hypothetical example, there is only a 50% chance of a human surviving another year at age 110 or greater.\n\nThe term is also used by biologists to describe cells that are not subject to the Hayflick limit on how many times they can divide.\n\nBiologists chose the word \"immortal\" to designate cells that are not subject to the Hayflick limit, the point at which cells can no longer divide due to DNA damage or shortened telomeres. Prior to Leonard Hayflick's theory, Alexis Carrel hypothesized that all normal somatic cells were immortal.\n\nThe term \"immortalization\" was first applied to cancer cells that expressed the telomere-lengthening enzyme telomerase, and thereby avoided apoptosis—i.e. cell death caused by intracellular mechanisms. Among the most commonly used cell lines are HeLa and Jurkat, both of which are immortalized cancer cell lines. HeLa cells originated from a sample of cervical cancer taken from Henrietta Lacks in 1951. These cells have been and still are widely used in biological research such as creation of the polio vaccine, sex hormone steroid research, and cell metabolism. Normal stem cells and germ cells can also be said to be immortal (when humans refer to the cell line).\n\nImmortal cell lines of cancer cells can be created by induction of oncogenes or loss of tumor suppressor genes. One way to induce immortality is through viral-mediated induction of the large T‑antigen, commonly introduced through simian virus 40 (SV-40).\n\nAccording to the Animal Aging and Longevity Database, the list of organisms with negligible aging (along with estimated longevity in the wild) includes:\n\n\nIn 2018, scientists working for Calico, a company owned by Alphabet, published a paper in the journal \"eLife\" which presents possible evidence that Heterocephalus glaber (Naked mole rat) do not face increased mortality risk due to aging.\n\nMany unicellular organisms age: as time passes, they divide more slowly and ultimately die. Asymmetrically dividing bacteria and yeast also age. However, symmetrically dividing bacteria and yeast can be biologically immortal under ideal growing conditions. In these conditions, when a cell splits symmetrically to produce two daughter cells, the process of cell division can restore the cell to a youthful state. However, if the parent asymmetrically buds off a daughter only the daughter is reset to the youthful state—the parent isn't restored and will go on to age and die. In a similar manner stem cells and gametes can be regarded as \"immortal\".\n\nHydras are a genus of the Cnidaria phylum. All cnidarians can regenerate, allowing them to recover from injury and to reproduce asexually. Hydras are simple, freshwater animals possessing radial symmetry and no post-mitotic cells. All hydra cells continually divide. It has been suggested that hydras do not undergo senescence, and, as such, are biologically immortal. In a four-year study, 3 cohorts of hydra did not show an increase in mortality with age. It is possible that these animals live much longer, considering that they reach maturity in 5 to 10 days. However, this does not explain how hydras are consequently able to maintain telomere lengths.\n\n\"Turritopsis dohrnii\", or \"Turritopsis nutricula\", is a small () species of jellyfish that uses transdifferentiation to replenish cells after sexual reproduction. This cycle can repeat indefinitely, potentially rendering it biologically immortal. This organism originated in the Caribbean sea, but has now spread around the world. Similar cases include hydrozoan \"Laodicea undulata\" and scyphozoan \"Aurelia\" sp.1.\n\nResearch suggests that lobsters may not slow down, weaken, or lose fertility with age, and that older lobsters may be more fertile than younger lobsters. This does not however make them immortal in the traditional sense, as they are significantly more likely to die at a shell moult the older they get (as detailed below).\n\nTheir longevity may be due to telomerase, an enzyme that repairs long repetitive sections of DNA sequences at the ends of chromosomes, referred to as telomeres. Telomerase is expressed by most vertebrates during embryonic stages but is generally absent from adult stages of life. However, unlike vertebrates, lobsters express telomerase as adults through most tissue, which has been suggested to be related to their longevity. Contrary to popular belief, lobsters are not immortal. Lobsters grow by moulting which requires a lot of energy, and the larger the shell the more energy is required. Eventually, the lobster will die from exhaustion during a moult. Older lobsters are also known to stop moulting, which means that the shell will eventually become damaged, infected, or fall apart and they die. The European lobster has an average life span of 31 years for males and 54 years for females.\n\nPlanarian flatworms have both sexually and asexually reproducing types. Studies on genus Schmidtea mediterranea suggest these planarians appear to regenerate (i.e. heal) indefinitely, and asexual individuals have an \"apparently limitless [telomere] regenerative capacity fueled by a population of highly proliferative adult stem cells\". \"Both asexual and sexual animals display age-related decline in telomere length; however, asexual animals are able to maintain telomere lengths somatically (i.e. during reproduction by fission or when regeneration is induced by amputation), whereas sexual animals restore telomeres by extension during sexual reproduction or during embryogenesis like other sexual species. Homeostatic telomerase activity observed in both asexual and sexual animals is not sufficient to maintain telomere length, whereas the increased activity in regenerating asexuals is sufficient to renew telomere length... \"\n\nLifespan: For sexually reproducing planaria: \"the lifespan of individual planarian can be as long as 3 years, likely due to the ability of neoblasts to constantly replace aging cells\". Whereas for asexually reproducing planaria: \"individual animals in clonal lines of some planarian species replicating by fission have been maintained for over 15 years\". They do not live forever.\n\nAlthough the premise that biological aging can be halted or reversed by foreseeable technology remains controversial, research into developing possible therapeutic interventions is underway. Among the principal drivers of international collaboration in such research is the SENS Research Foundation, a non-profit organization that advocates a number of what it claims are plausible research pathways that might lead to engineered negligible senescence in humans.\n\nIn 2015, Elizabeth Parrish, CEO of BioViva, treated herself using gene therapy, with the goal of not just halting, but reversing aging. She has since reported feeling more energetic, and no obvious negative side effects have been noticed.\n\nFor several decades, researchers have also pursued various forms of suspended animation as a means by which to indefinitely extend mammalian lifespan. Some scientists have voiced support for the feasibility of the cryopreservation of humans, known as cryonics. Cryonics is predicated on the concept that some people considered clinically dead by today's medicolegal standards are not actually dead according to information-theoretic death and can, in principle, be resuscitated given sufficient technological advances. The goal of current cryonics procedures is tissue vitrification, a technique first used to reversibly cryopreserve a viable whole organ in 2005.\n\nSimilar proposals involving suspended animation include chemical brain preservation. The non-profit Brain Preservation Foundation offers a cash prize valued at over $100,000 for demonstrations of techniques that would allow for high-fidelity, long-term storage of a mammalian brain.\n\nIn 2016, scientists at the Buck Institute for Research on Aging and the Mayo Clinic employed genetic and pharmacological approaches to ablate pro-aging senescent cells, extending healthy lifespan of mice by over 25%. The startup Unity Biotechnology is further developing this strategy in human clinical trials.\n\nIn early 2017, Harvard scientists headed by biologist David Sinclair announced they have tested a metabolic precursor that increases NAD+ levels in mice and have successfully reversed the cellular aging process and can protect the DNA from future damage. \"The old mouse and young mouse cells are indistinguishable\", David was quoted. Human trials are to begin shortly in what the team expect is 6 months at Brigham and Women's Hospital, in Boston.\n\nTo achieve the more limited goal of halting the increase in mortality rate with age, a solution must be found to the fact that any intervention to remove senescent cells that creates competition among cells will increase age-related mortality from cancer.\n\nIn 2012 in Russia, and then in the United States, Israel, and the Netherlands, pro-immortality transhumanist political parties were launched. They aim to provide political support to anti-aging and radical life extension research and technologies and want to ensure the fastest possible—and at the same time, the least disruptive—societal transition to radical life extension, life without aging, and ultimately, immortality. They aim to make it possible to provide access to such technologies to the majority of people alive today.\n\nFuture advances in nanomedicine could give rise to life extension through the repair of many processes thought to be responsible for aging. K. Eric Drexler, one of the founders of nanotechnology, postulated cell repair devices, including ones operating within cells and utilizing as yet hypothetical molecular machines, in his 1986 book Engines of Creation. Raymond Kurzweil, a futurist and transhumanist, stated in his book \"The Singularity Is Near\" that he believes that advanced medical nanorobotics could completely remedy the effects of aging by 2030. According to Richard Feynman, it was his former graduate student and collaborator Albert Hibbs who originally suggested to him (circa 1959) the idea of a \"medical\" use for Feynman's theoretical micromachines (see biological machine). Hibbs suggested that certain repair machines might one day be reduced in size to the point that it would, in theory, be possible to (as Feynman put it) \"swallow the doctor\". The idea was incorporated into Feynman's 1959 essay \"There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "557189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=557189", "title": "Creatures 2", "text": "Creatures 2\n\nCreatures 2 is the second game in the Creatures artificial life game series made by Creature Labs, and the sequel to 1996 game \"Creatures\". It features three species: the cute, dependent Norns, the cantankerous Grendels and the industrious Ettins. The game tries to simulate life, and includes a complex two-dimensional ecology of plants, animals and insects, which provide the environment for the three main species to live and develop in. The player interacts with the world using a hand-shaped cursor, and tries to encourage the creatures' development by manipulating various objects around the world, guiding the creatures using the cursor and encouraging the creatures to speak.\n\nMany new gameplay features included in Creatures 2 not present in the original game include a new physics model and a global weather system, along with brand new applets and a world twice the size of the Creatures 1 world.\n\nThe executable file for the game was in fact an interpreter for its scripting language, thus allowing users to make total conversions or derivative works from the game.\n\nLike the other games in the series, Creatures 2 is mostly open-ended, with no predetermined goals, allowing the player to raise Norns at their own pace. In each new world, the player begins in the incubator cavern area. The hatchery, one of the game's in-built applets, allows the player to add Norn eggs to the world, which can be hatched via the incubator. Norns may also be downloaded from the internet and imported into to use in the game.\n\nOnce Norns reach adolescence at around an hour old, they are ready to breed, and female Norns will begin an oestrogen cycle. When Norns mate, there is a long kissing sound with a pop at the end – known as a kisspop. Like real life, not all mating results in a pregnancy. The Norn reproductive process can be monitored via the Breeder's Kit.\n\nAt the beginning, the player is only able to navigate a small area of Albia. As their Norns explore the world, however, more areas will be able to visited. If a Norn falls into water and is picked up, it cannot be placed in an unvisited area.\n\nLike the previous game, every plant, animal and insect in Albia is a separate system called an autonomous agent, or just \"agent\" for short. Many user-created agents have been made, which can be injected into the world using the Injector Kit applet, which also includes an analysis page giving the opportunity to check new objects for potentially harmful contents before injecting them.\n\nAlbia, the world in which Creatures 2 is set, is a vast disc-world filled with a wide variety of flora, ranging from the Cacti that inhabit the desert to the exclusive mushroom-like Gelsemium plant that can only be found in a single cavern. Albia is also home to a substantial amount of animal life, such as bees which pollinate flowers and create honey, and Zander fish, which provide a food source for creatures near the oceans. Scattered throughout the world are various seed launchers, which can be used to replenish stocks if any life-forms become extinct.\n\nAlbia also has four seasons: Spring, Summer, Winter and Autumn, and boasts its very own climate, with weather such as snow mainly occurring during the colder months, and rain mostly during the Spring. The game also has an on-screen thermometer, allowing the player to monitor Albia's temperature at all times.\n\nCreatures 2's release was widely anticipated. It is likely that around 450,000 copies of the original Creatures had been sold by the time the game was released, and a huge following had developed behind it. The \"Early Adoption Program\", a promotion where 250 copies of Creatures 2 were given away prior to its official release in September 1998, was scheduled to begin in July 1998, but was pushed back as the game was not close to release quality at the point at which the EAP was scheduled to start. In the end, most received their copies several weeks after the release date.\n\nUpon release, the game suffered from numerous flaws, such as a deficient Norn genome that lead to a condition dubbed \"One Hour Stupidity Syndrome (OHSS)\", which caused Norns to forgot basic survival skills such as eating and sleeping. The task of creating the new Norn genome was given to Sandra Linkletter (Slink), who was also a member of the Creatures community. During development, many problems emerged, most likely due to disagreements between Slink and the Creatures 2 team. Slink later claimed that her design had been compromised by the geneticist brought on to finish her work, Eric Goodwin, and later accused Cyberlife of deriving their update from hers.\n\nCyberlife later released a patch with an improved genome after several weeks had passed. Several users also created improved Norn genomes, such as the Canny Norn genome created by Chris Double and Lis Morris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4249665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4249665", "title": "Daemonite", "text": "Daemonite\n\nThe Daemonites are a fictional alien race in the Wildstorm Universe. They were created by Jim Lee and first appeared in \"WildC.A.T.s.\" #1 (August 1992).\n\nDaemonites are reptilian aliens from the planet Daemon, who are capable of possessing host bodies. Daemonites need to possess a host to survive on planets with a climate different from Daemon, like Earth (though a deal with the D'rahn eliminated this weakness from all Daemonites that resided on Earth at the time). When possessing a host, the Daemonite has access to all abilities that host has. A Daemonite can change his host into his true, Daemonite form, but can only maintain this form for a short period of time.\n\nSome Daemonites, particularly the more elite, are also avid shape-changers capable of taking on the physical form of whoever or whatever they see fit at will. Some of the stronger members of their race can also resume the semblance of inorganic substances e.i. metals, granules, liquids; in order to add to their own deadliness, even able to alternate while possessing a host. Albeit changing back rather quickly soon afterwards.\n\nDaemonites can survive for millennia and are possibly even immortal. They are capable of regenerating missing limbs and quickly recover from serious injuries able to heal from destroyed organs, critical injuries and heavy brain damage, though the healing capacity varies from Daemonite to Daemonite and few to most lack the capability to survive a destroyed head or brain. healing processes can be accelerated while within a host body as well.\n\nSome Daemonites even have a capacity for chronokinesis, having taught it to Voodoo of the WildC.A.Ts during her recovery process.\n\nHigher born Daemonite class' akin to Kherubim lords hold a plethora of new and exotic attributes open to them, This particular species genus are called Daemonite Royalty. This upper tier possess a number of traits that make them superior to their weaker kin such as complete bio-molecular physical control, hive mind collectives, multi-hosting and vast mental and physical energy manipulation. Four members of this group include Helspont, Defile, Hightower and S'Ryn each possessing hosts of unique abilities all their own.\n\nThe true form of the Daemonites differs depending on the artist, but generally includes dark green skin, long sharp claws, sharp teeth, and a hunched posture.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, which merges the Wildstorm universe, Daemonites take on a whole new look and feel while retaining many old aspects it shared in the Wildstorm imprint. For starters, The Daemonites have become a telepathic hive intelligence capable of not only reading and sharing thoughts between other Daemonites and their respective hosts. But are also avid mentalists capable of probing minds and having open mind to mind communications with other individuals, even being able to psionically track targets via their unique neural signal's.\n\nOther proclivities include an enhancement of their Metamorphosis capabilities to enable the phasing through solid matter with ease, akin to a martian.\n\nMillennia ago, the Daemonites discovered interstellar travel and started to conquer the universe. Their ability to possess other species gave them a distinct advantage over most species, allowing infiltration and survival in almost any environment. Their rise to power was unopposed until they encountered the Kherubim. The Kherubim were a noble race of nearly immortal warriors. Despite the Daemonites' ability to possess the Kherubim, the Kherubim's technology allowed them to detect possessed individuals. The war raged for millennia.\n\nA Daemonite vessel fought a Kherubim vessel near Earth, thousands of years ago. Both spaceships were damaged and crashlanded on Earth. The Daemonites decided to conquer this world and use its population as host bodies, while the Kherubim wanted to defend humanity. The Daemonite-Kherubim War inspired many tales of gods, demons, angels and monsters. Most of the Daemonites organised themselves as the Cabal and focused on the goal of Daemonite Reunification: a return to Daemon. They were opposed by multiple heroes, such as Axel Brass and the WildC.A.Ts.\n\nUnbeknownst to those stranded on Earth, the Kherubim won the war and imposed heavy reparations on Daemon. Daemonite society went bankrupt trying to pay and many Daemonites migrated to prosperous Khera, but were confined to ghettos.\n\nWhen the Daemonites on Earth found out, many of them ceased their quest for Reunification. Some settled down, others became mercenaries and others again, like Lord Helspont, now focused on increasing their own power and wealth. Helspont finds a 'sleeper ship' of Daemonites and manages to recruit them to his cause. Most of these Daemonites are slain by human police officers.\n\nLater, the Daemonite Lord Helspont found a Kheran World Shaper Engine on Earth and discovered that the Kherans were sending Shaper Engines across the universe to land on planets and turn them into ideal habitats for Kherubim. He also discovered that one of these engines had created new races across the universe, including the humans and Daemonites.\n\nSince DC Comics' The New 52 relaunch in 2011, the Daemonites have been featured in several series. Most notably, they play a central role in both the \"Voodoo\" and \"Grifter\" ongoing series, both featuring title characters who originated in the Wildstorm Universe. The Daemonites have also been featured in the relaunched \"Stormwatch\", \"Superman\", \"Demon Knights\" and \"Hawkman\" series. In \"Demon Knights\", they obliterate every incarnation of Camelot and attempt to slay Merlin to stop him creating them.\n\nWith the coming of the DC Rebirth publishing, Wildstorm characters have now undergone extensive revamp, once again with characters such as the WildC.A.T.S and Stormwatch being relegated to their own separate continuum. In the new continuity written and illustrated by Warren Ellis and Jon Davis-Hunt, The initial Daemonites appear on site at an old Internal Operations safe house where a firefight ensued between two separate factions who have powerful ties to the world at large. They would encounter another familiar face in Lucy Blaze who was dispatched by Stormwatch's ground division, who initially reacted with hostility to their presence. Said Daemonite commented that they were only observing, seeing that something new was going on and that Lucy should't interfere with it before fading away into the shadows.\n\nLittle is known about Daemonite culture. The Daemonites on Earth are ruled by three Lords or Royalty as coined by some of them. Most Daemonites on Earth are aggressive and completely devoted to the cause of Reunification. A process in which all existent Daemonites throughout the universe congregate at central focal point where a Lord resides to begin conquest of native worlds. \n\nOn Khera, the WildC.A.Ts encountered Daemonite civilians whose behaviour was very much like human behaviour. The Daemonites on Khera seemed to have a more tribal structure, but this could be a result of being confined to low-tech ghettos. After encountering peaceful Daemonites on Khera, the WildC.A.Ts have encountered several peaceful Daemonites on Earth as well.\n\nThe Daemonites on Khera showed WildC.A.Ts-member Voodoo, part Daemonite herself, rituals where Daemonites possessed other Daemonites. This ritual transferred memories, emotions and knowledge between Daemonites and forged a strong bond between Daemonites.\n\nThe strongest of Daemonites possess can grow into a host of special powers ranging to metamorphosis, structure merging, time manipulation, some psychic powers, etc. While the Daemonite Royalty come to withhold entirely unique powers and abilities all their own. Likewise, it is unknown if a Daemonite is either born into or becomes one\n\nWhile very little is known of the Daemonite social circle. There seem to be two main castes present within their species.\n\nDaemonites prefer to use their own natural abilities in battle, but their technology is very advanced. They have spaceships capable of interstellar flight. Nanotechnology allows them to create highly advanced weaponry in a short period of time. Mister Majestic discovered a Daemonite-built portal into the Bleed, allowing them to enter alternate dimensions.\n\nDaemonites on Earth often wear special \"stealth-suits\", hiding them from most forms of detection. Others wear \"flash-suits\", which are armoured and possess built-in weaponry.\n\n"}
{"id": "541223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541223", "title": "Dead on arrival", "text": "Dead on arrival\n\nDead on arrival (DOA), also dead in the field and brought in dead (BID) indicates that a patient was found to be already clinically dead upon the arrival of professional medical assistance, often in the form of first responders such as emergency medical technicians, paramedics, or police.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, first responders must consult verbally with a physician before officially pronouncing a patient deceased, but once cardiopulmonary resuscitation is initiated, it must be continued until a physician can pronounce the patient dead.\n\nWhen presented with a patient, medical professionals are required to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) unless specific conditions are met which allow them to pronounce the patient as deceased. In most places, these are examples of such criteria:\n\nThis list may not be a comprehensive picture of medical practice in all jurisdictions or conditions. For example, it may not represent the standard of care for patients with terminal diseases such as advanced cancer. In addition, jurisdictions such as Texas permit withdrawal of medical care from patients who are deemed unlikely to recover. \n\nRegardless of the patient, a pronouncement of death must always be made with absolute certainty and only after it has been determined that the patient is not a candidate for resuscitation. This type of decision is rather sensitive and can be difficult to make.\n\nLegal definitions of death vary from place to place; for example, irreversible brain-stem death, prolonged clinical death, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8221", "title": "Death", "text": "Death\n\nDeath is the cessation of all biological functions that sustain a living organism. Phenomena which commonly bring about death include aging, predation, malnutrition, disease, suicide, homicide, starvation, dehydration, and accidents or major trauma resulting in terminal injury. In most cases, bodies of living organisms begin to decompose shortly after death.\n\nDeath – particularly the death of humans – has commonly been considered a sad or unpleasant occasion, due to the affection for the being that has died and the termination of social and familial bonds with the deceased. Other concerns include fear of death, necrophobia, anxiety, sorrow, grief, emotional pain, depression, sympathy, compassion, solitude, or saudade. Many cultures and religions have the idea of an afterlife, and also hold the idea of reward or judgement and punishment for past sin.\n\nThe word death comes from Old English \"dēaþ\", which in turn comes from Proto-Germanic *\"dauþuz\" (reconstructed by etymological analysis). This comes from the Proto-Indo-European stem *\"dheu-\" meaning the \"process, act, condition of dying\".\n\nThe concept and symptoms of death, and varying degrees of delicacy used in discussion in public forums, have generated numerous scientific, legal, and socially acceptable terms or euphemisms for death. When a person has died, it is also said they have \"passed away\", \"passed on\", \"expired\", or are \"gone\", among numerous other socially accepted, religiously specific, slang, and irreverent terms. Bereft of life, the dead person is then a \"corpse\", \"cadaver\", a \"body\", a \"set of remains\", and when all flesh has rotted away, a skeleton. The terms \"carrion\" and \"carcass\" can also be used, though these more often connote the remains of non-human animals. As a polite reference to a dead person, it has become common practice to use the participle form of \"decease\", as in \"the deceased\"; another noun form is \"decedent\". The ashes left after a cremation are sometimes referred to by the neologism \"cremains\", a portmanteau of \"cremation\" and \"remains\".\n\nSenescence refers to a scenario when a living being is able to survive all calamities, but eventually dies due to causes relating to old age. Animal and plant cells normally reproduce and function during the whole period of natural existence, but the aging process derives from deterioration of cellular activity and ruination of regular functioning. Aptitude of cells for gradual deterioration and mortality means that cells are naturally sentenced to stable and long-term loss of living capacities, even despite continuing metabolic reactions and viability. In the United Kingdom, for example, nine out of ten of all the deaths that occur on a daily basis relates to senescence, while around the world it accounts for two-thirds of 150,000 deaths that take place daily (Hayflick & Moody, 2003).\n\nAlmost all animals who survive external hazards to their biological functioning eventually die from biological aging, known in life sciences as \"senescence\". Some organisms experience negligible senescence, even exhibiting biological immortality. These include the jellyfish \"Turritopsis dohrnii\", the hydra, and the planarian. Unnatural causes of death include suicide and homicide. From all causes, roughly 150,000 people die around the world each day.<ref name=\"doi10.2202/1941-6008.1011\"></ref> Of these, two thirds die directly or indirectly due to senescence, but in industrialized countries – such as the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany – the rate approaches 90%, i.e., nearly nine out of ten of all deaths are related to senescence.\n\nPhysiological death is now seen as a process, more than an event: conditions once considered indicative of death are now reversible. Where in the process a dividing line is drawn between life and death depends on factors beyond the presence or absence of vital signs. In general, clinical death is neither necessary nor sufficient for a determination of legal death. A patient with working heart and lungs determined to be brain dead can be pronounced legally dead without clinical death occurring. As scientific knowledge and medicine advance, formulating a precise medical definition of death becomes more difficult.\n\nSigns of death or strong indications that a warm-blooded animal is no longer alive are:\n\nThe concept of death is a key to human understanding of the phenomenon. There are many scientific approaches to the concept. For example, brain death, as practiced in medical science, defines death as a point in time at which brain activity ceases.\n\nOne of the challenges in defining death is in distinguishing it from life. As a point in time, death would seem to refer to the moment at which life ends. Determining when death has occurred is difficult, as cessation of life functions is often not simultaneous across organ systems. Such determination therefore requires drawing precise conceptual boundaries between life and death. This is difficult, due to there being little consensus on how to define life. This general problem applies to the particular challenge of defining death in the context of medicine.\n\nIt is possible to define life in terms of consciousness. When consciousness ceases, a living organism can be said to have died. One of the flaws in this approach is that there are many organisms which are alive but probably not conscious (for example, single-celled organisms). Another problem is in defining consciousness, which has many different definitions given by modern scientists, psychologists and philosophers. Additionally, many religious traditions, including Abrahamic and Dharmic traditions, hold that death does not (or may not) entail the end of consciousness. In certain cultures, death is more of a process than a single event. It implies a slow shift from one spiritual state to another.\n\nOther definitions for death focus on the character of cessation of something. In this context \"death\" describes merely the state where something has ceased, for example, life. Thus, the definition of \"life\" simultaneously defines death.\n\nHistorically, attempts to define the exact moment of a human's death have been subjective, or imprecise. Death was once defined as the cessation of heartbeat (cardiac arrest) and of breathing, but the development of CPR and prompt defibrillation have rendered that definition inadequate because breathing and heartbeat can sometimes be restarted. Events which were causally linked to death in the past no longer kill in all circumstances; without a functioning heart or lungs, life can sometimes be sustained with a combination of life support devices, organ transplants and artificial pacemakers.\n\nToday, where a definition of the moment of death is required, doctors and coroners usually turn to \"brain death\" or \"biological death\" to define a person as being dead; people are considered dead when the electrical activity in their brain ceases. It is presumed that an end of electrical activity indicates the end of consciousness. Suspension of consciousness must be permanent, and not transient, as occurs during certain sleep stages, and especially a coma. In the case of sleep, EEGs can easily tell the difference.\n\nThe category of \"brain death\" is seen as problematic by some scholars. For instance, Dr. Franklin Miller, senior faculty member at the Department of Bioethics, National Institutes of Health, notes: \"By the late 1990s... the equation of brain death with death of the human being was increasingly challenged by scholars, based on evidence regarding the array of biological functioning displayed by patients correctly diagnosed as having this condition who were maintained on mechanical ventilation for substantial periods of time. These patients maintained the ability to sustain circulation and respiration, control temperature, excrete wastes, heal wounds, fight infections and, most dramatically, to gestate fetuses (in the case of pregnant \"brain-dead\" women).\"\n\nThose people maintaining that only the neo-cortex of the brain is necessary for consciousness sometimes argue that only electrical activity should be considered when defining death. Eventually it is possible that the criterion for death will be the permanent and irreversible loss of cognitive function, as evidenced by the death of the cerebral cortex. All hope of recovering human thought and personality is then gone given current and foreseeable medical technology. At present, in most places the more conservative definition of death – irreversible cessation of electrical activity in the whole brain, as opposed to just in the neo-cortex – has been adopted (for example the Uniform Determination Of Death Act in the United States). In 2005, the Terri Schiavo case brought the question of brain death and artificial sustenance to the front of American politics.\n\nEven by whole-brain criteria, the determination of brain death can be complicated. EEGs can detect spurious electrical impulses, while certain drugs, hypoglycemia, hypoxia, or hypothermia can suppress or even stop brain activity on a temporary basis. Because of this, hospitals have protocols for determining brain death involving EEGs at widely separated intervals under defined conditions.\n\nThe death of a person has legal consequences that may vary between different jurisdictions.\nA death certificate is issued in most jurisdictions, either by a doctor, or by an administrative office upon presentation of a doctor's declaration of death.\n\nThere are many anecdotal references to people being declared dead by physicians and then \"coming back to life\", sometimes days later in their own coffin, or when embalming procedures are about to begin. From the mid-18th century onwards, there was an upsurge in the public's fear of being mistakenly buried alive, and much debate about the uncertainty of the signs of death. Various suggestions were made to test for signs of life before burial, ranging from pouring vinegar and pepper into the corpse's mouth to applying red hot pokers to the feet or into the rectum. Writing in 1895, the physician J.C. Ouseley claimed that as many as 2,700 people were buried prematurely each year in England and Wales, although others estimated the figure to be closer to 800.\n\nIn cases of electric shock, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) for an hour or longer can allow stunned nerves to recover, allowing an apparently dead person to survive. People found unconscious under icy water may survive if their faces are kept continuously cold until they arrive at an emergency room. In science fiction scenarios where such technology is readily available, real death is distinguished from reversible death.\n\nThe leading cause of human death in developing countries is infectious disease. The leading causes in developed countries are atherosclerosis (heart disease and stroke), cancer, and other diseases related to obesity and aging. By an extremely wide margin, the largest unifying cause of death in the developed world is biological aging, leading to various complications known as aging-associated diseases. These conditions cause loss of homeostasis, leading to cardiac arrest, causing loss of oxygen and nutrient supply, causing irreversible deterioration of the brain and other tissues. Of the roughly 150,000 people who die each day across the globe, about two thirds die of age-related causes. In industrialized nations, the proportion is much higher, approaching 90%. With improved medical capability, dying has become a condition to be managed. Home deaths, once commonplace, are now rare in the developed world.\nIn developing nations, inferior sanitary conditions and lack of access to modern medical technology makes death from infectious diseases more common than in developed countries. One such disease is tuberculosis, a bacterial disease which killed 1.8M people in 2015. Malaria causes about 400–900M cases of fever and 1–3M deaths annually. AIDS death toll in Africa may reach 90–100M by 2025.\n\nAccording to Jean Ziegler (United Nations Special Reporter on the Right to Food, 2000 – Mar 2008), mortality due to malnutrition accounted for 58% of the total mortality rate in 2006. Ziegler says worldwide approximately 62M people died from all causes and of those deaths more than 36M died of hunger or diseases due to deficiencies in micronutrients.\n\nTobacco smoking killed 100 million people worldwide in the 20th century and could kill 1 billion people around the world in the 21st century, a World Health Organization report warned.\n\nMany leading developed world causes of death can be postponed by diet and physical activity, but the accelerating incidence of disease with age still imposes limits on human longevity. The evolutionary cause of aging is, at best, only just beginning to be understood. It has been suggested that direct intervention in the aging process may now be the most effective intervention against major causes of death.\n\nSelye proposed a unified non-specific approach to many causes of death. He demonstrated that stress decreases adaptability of an organism and proposed to describe the adaptability as a special resource, \"adaptation energy\". The animal dies when this resource is exhausted. Selye assumed that the adaptability is a finite supply, presented at birth. Later on, Goldstone proposed the concept of a production or income of adaptation energy which may be stored (up to a limit), as a capital reserve of adaptation. In recent works, adaptation energy is considered as an internal coordinate on the \"dominant path\" in the model of adaptation. It is demonstrated that oscillations of well-being appear when the reserve of adaptability is almost exhausted.\n\nIn 2012, suicide overtook car crashes for leading causes of human injury deaths in the U.S., followed by poisoning, falls and murder. Causes of death are different in different parts of the world. In high-income and middle income countries nearly half up to more than two thirds of all people live beyond the age of 70 and predominantly die of chronic diseases. In low-income countries, where less than one in five of all people reach the age of 70, and more than a third of all deaths are among children under 15, people predominantly die of infectious diseases.\n\nAn autopsy, also known as a \"postmortem examination\" or an \"obduction\", is a medical procedure that consists of a thorough examination of a human corpse to determine the cause and manner of a person's death and to evaluate any disease or injury that may be present. It is usually performed by a specialized medical doctor called a pathologist.\n\nAutopsies are either performed for legal or medical purposes. A forensic autopsy is carried out when the cause of death may be a criminal matter, while a clinical or academic autopsy is performed to find the medical cause of death and is used in cases of unknown or uncertain death, or for research purposes. Autopsies can be further classified into cases where external examination suffices, and those where the body is dissected and an internal examination is conducted. Permission from next of kin may be required for internal autopsy in some cases. Once an internal autopsy is complete the body is generally reconstituted by sewing it back together. Autopsy is important in a medical environment and may shed light on mistakes and help improve practices.\n\nA \"necropsy\" is an older term for a postmortem examination, unregulated, and not always a medical procedure. In modern times the term is more often used in the postmortem examination of the corpses of animals.\n\nCryonics (from Greek κρύος 'kryos-' meaning 'icy cold') is the low-temperature preservation of animals and humans who cannot be sustained by contemporary medicine, with the hope that healing and resuscitation may be possible in the future.\n\nCryopreservation of people or large animals is not reversible with current technology. The stated rationale for cryonics is that people who are considered dead by current legal or medical definitions may not necessarily be dead according to the more stringent information-theoretic definition of death. It is proposed that cryopreserved people might someday be recovered by using highly advanced technology.\n\nSome scientific literature supports the feasibility of cryonics. Many other scientists regard cryonics with skepticism. By 2015, more than 300 people have undergone cryopreservation procedures since cryonics was first proposed in 1962.\n\nLife extension refers to an increase in maximum or average lifespan, especially in humans, by slowing down or reversing the processes of aging. Average lifespan is determined by vulnerability to accidents and age or lifestyle-related afflictions such as cancer, or cardiovascular disease. Extension of average lifespan can be achieved by good diet, exercise and avoidance of hazards such as smoking. Maximum lifespan is also determined by the rate of aging for a species inherent in its genes. Currently, the only widely recognized method of extending maximum lifespan is calorie restriction. Theoretically, extension of maximum lifespan can be achieved by reducing the rate of aging damage, by periodic replacement of damaged tissues, or by molecular repair or rejuvenation of deteriorated cells and tissues.\n\nA United States poll found that religious people and irreligious people, as well as men and women and people of different economic classes have similar rates of support for life extension, while Africans and Hispanics have higher rates of support than white people. 38 percent of the polled said they would desire to have their aging process cured.\n\nResearchers of life extension are a subclass of biogerontologists known as \"biomedical gerontologists\". They try to understand the nature of aging and they develop treatments to reverse aging processes or to at least slow them down, for the improvement of health and the maintenance of youthful vigor at every stage of life. Those who take advantage of life extension findings and seek to apply them upon themselves are called \"life extensionists\" or \"longevists\". The primary life extension strategy currently is to apply available anti-aging methods in the hope of living long enough to benefit from a complete cure to aging once it is developed.\n\n\"One of medicine's new frontiers: treating the dead\", recognizes that cells that have been without oxygen for more than five minutes die, not from lack of oxygen, but rather when their oxygen supply is resumed. Therefore, practitioners of this approach, e.g., at the Resuscitation Science institute at the University of Pennsylvania, \"aim to reduce oxygen uptake, slow metabolism and adjust the blood chemistry for gradual and safe reperfusion.\"\n\nBefore about 1930, most people in Western countries died in their own homes, surrounded by family, and comforted by clergy, neighbors, and doctors making house calls. By the mid-20th century, half of all Americans died in a hospital. By the start of the 21st century, only about 20 to 25% of people in developed countries died outside a medical institution. The shift away from dying at home, towards dying in a professionalized medical environment, has been termed the \"Invisible Death\". The \"Invisible Death\" process was extremely slow and infinitesimal. It took many years to shift to this new location where dying was commonly taking place outside the home.\n\nIn society, the nature of death and humanity's awareness of its own mortality has for millennia been a concern of the world's religious traditions and of philosophical inquiry. This includes belief in resurrection or an afterlife (associated with Abrahamic religions), reincarnation or rebirth (associated with Dharmic religions), or that consciousness permanently ceases to exist, known as eternal oblivion (associated with atheism).\n\nCommemoration ceremonies after death may include various mourning, funeral practices and ceremonies of honouring the deceased. The physical remains of a person, commonly known as a \"corpse\" or \"body\", are usually interred whole or cremated, though among the world's cultures there are a variety of other methods of mortuary disposal. In the English language, blessings directed towards a dead person include \"rest in peace\", or its initialism RIP.\n\nDeath is the center of many traditions and organizations; customs relating to death are a feature of every culture around the world. Much of this revolves around the care of the dead, as well as the afterlife and the disposal of bodies upon the onset of death. The disposal of human corpses does, in general, begin with the last offices before significant time has passed, and ritualistic ceremonies often occur, most commonly interment or cremation. This is not a unified practice; in Tibet, for instance, the body is given a sky burial and left on a mountain top. Proper preparation for death and techniques and ceremonies for producing the ability to transfer one's spiritual attainments into another body (reincarnation) are subjects of detailed study in Tibet. Mummification or embalming is also prevalent in some cultures, to retard the rate of decay.\n\nLegal aspects of death are also part of many cultures, particularly the settlement of the deceased estate and the issues of inheritance and in some countries, inheritance taxation.\nCapital punishment is also a culturally divisive aspect of death. In most jurisdictions where capital punishment is carried out today, the death penalty is reserved for premeditated murder, espionage, treason, or as part of military justice. In some countries, sexual crimes, such as adultery and sodomy, carry the death penalty, as do religious crimes such as apostasy, the formal renunciation of one's religion. In many retentionist countries, drug trafficking is also a capital offense. In China, human trafficking and serious cases of corruption are also punished by the death penalty. In militaries around the world courts-martial have imposed death sentences for offenses such as cowardice, desertion, insubordination, and mutiny.\n\nDeath in warfare and in suicide attack also have cultural links, and the ideas of dulce et decorum est pro patria mori, mutiny punishable by death, grieving relatives of dead soldiers and death notification are embedded in many cultures. Recently in the western world, with the increase in terrorism following the September 11 attacks, but also further back in time with suicide bombings, kamikaze missions in World War II and suicide missions in a host of other conflicts in history, death for a cause by way of suicide attack, and martyrdom have had significant cultural impacts.\n\nSuicide in general, and particularly euthanasia, are also points of cultural debate. Both acts are understood very differently in different cultures. In Japan, for example, ending a life with honor by seppuku was considered a desirable death, whereas according to traditional Christian and Islamic cultures, suicide is viewed as a sin. Death is personified in many cultures, with such symbolic representations as the Grim Reaper, Azrael, the Hindu God Yama and Father Time.\n\nIn Brazil, a human death is counted officially when it is registered by existing family members at a cartório, a government-authorized registry. Before being able to file for an official death, the deceased must have been registered for an official birth at the cartório. Though a Public Registry Law guarantees all Brazilian citizens the right to register deaths, regardless of their financial means, of their family members (often children), the Brazilian government has not taken away the burden, the hidden costs and fees, of filing for a death. For many impoverished families, the indirect costs and burden of filing for a death lead to a more appealing, unofficial, local, cultural burial, which in turn raises the debate about inaccurate mortality rates.\n\nTalking about death and witnessing it is a difficult issue with most cultures. Western societies may like to treat the dead with the utmost material respect, with an official embalmer and associated rites. Eastern societies (like India) may be more open to accepting it as a \"fait accompli\", with a funeral procession of the dead body ending in an open air burning-to-ashes of the same.\n\nMuch interest and debate surround the question of what happens to one's consciousness as one's body dies. The belief in the permanent loss of consciousness after death is often called \"eternal oblivion\". Belief that the stream of consciousness is preserved after physical death is described by the term \"afterlife\".\n\nAfter death the remains of an organism become part of the biogeochemical cycle. Animals may be consumed by a predator or a scavenger. Organic material may then be further decomposed by detritivores, organisms which recycle detritus, returning it to the environment for reuse in the food chain, where these chemicals may eventually end up being consumed and assimilated into the cells of a living organism. Examples of detritivores include earthworms, woodlice and dung beetles.\n\nMicroorganisms also play a vital role, raising the temperature of the decomposing matter as they break it down into yet simpler molecules. Not all materials need to be decomposed fully. Coal, a fossil fuel formed over vast tracts of time in swamp ecosystems, is one example.\n\nContemporary evolutionary theory sees death as an important part of the process of natural selection. It is considered that organisms less adapted to their environment are more likely to die having produced fewer offspring, thereby reducing their contribution to the gene pool. Their genes are thus eventually bred out of a population, leading at worst to extinction and, more positively, making the process possible, referred to as speciation. Frequency of reproduction plays an equally important role in determining species survival: an organism that dies young but leaves numerous offspring displays, according to Darwinian criteria, much greater fitness than a long-lived organism leaving only one.\n\nExtinction is the cessation of existence of a species or group of taxa, reducing biodiversity. The moment of extinction is generally considered to be the death of the last individual of that species (although the capacity to breed and recover may have been lost before this point). Because a species' potential range may be very large, determining this moment is difficult, and is usually done retrospectively. This difficulty leads to phenomena such as Lazarus taxa, where species presumed extinct abruptly \"reappear\" (typically in the fossil record) after a period of apparent absence. New species arise through the process of speciation, an aspect of evolution. New varieties of organisms arise and thrive when they are able to find and exploit an ecological niche – and species become extinct when they are no longer able to survive in changing conditions or against superior competition.\n\nInquiry into the evolution of aging aims to explain why so many living things and the vast majority of animals weaken and die with age (exceptions include \"Hydra\" and the already cited jellyfish \"Turritopsis dohrnii\", which research shows to be biologically immortal). The evolutionary origin of senescence remains one of the fundamental puzzles of biology. Gerontology specializes in the science of human aging processes.\n\nOrganisms showing only asexual reproduction (e.g. bacteria, some protists, like the euglenoids and many amoebozoans) and unicellular organisms with sexual reproduction (colonial or not, like the volvocine algae \"Pandorina\" and \"Chlamydomonas\") are \"immortal\" at some extent, dying only due to external hazards, like being eaten or meeting with a fatal accident. In multicellular organisms (and also in multinucleate ciliates), with a Weismannist development, that is, with a division of labor between mortal somatic (body) cells and \"immortal\" germ (reproductive) cells, death becomes an essential part of life, at least for the somatic line.\n\nThe \"Volvox\" algae are among the simplest organisms to exhibit that division of labor between two completely different cell types, and as a consequence include death of somatic line as a regular, genetically regulated part of its life history.\n\nDeath is an important subject of religious doctrine.\n\nIn Buddhist doctrine and practice, death plays an important role. Awareness of death was what motivated Prince Siddhartha to strive to find the \"deathless\" and finally to attain enlightenment. In Buddhist doctrine, death functions as a reminder of the value of having been born as a human being. Being reborn as a human being is considered the only state in which one can attain enlightenment, therefore death helps remind oneself that one should not that for granted. The belief in rebirth among Buddhists does not necessarily remove death anxiety, since all existence in the cycle of rebirth is considered filled with suffering, and being reborn many times does not necessarily mean that one progresses.\n\nDeath is part of several key Buddhist tenets, such as the Four Noble Truths and dependent origination.\n\nDeath is seen in Judaism as tragic and intimidating. Persons who come into contact with corpses are ritually impure. There are a variety of beliefs about the afterlife within Judaism, but none of them contradict the preference of life over death. This is partially because death puts a cessation to the possibility of fulfilling any commandments.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "6079418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6079418", "title": "Gerontechnology", "text": "Gerontechnology\n\nGerontechnology is an inter- and multidisciplinary academic and professional field combining gerontology and technology. Sustainability of an ageing society depends upon our effectiveness in creating technological environments, including assistive technology and inclusive design, for innovative and independent living and social participation of older adults in any state of health, comfort and safety. In short, gerontechnology concerns matching technological environments to health, housing, mobility, communication, leisure and work of older people. Research outcomes form the basis for designers, builders, engineers, manufacturers, and those in the health professions (nursing, medicine, gerontology, geriatrics, environmental psychology, developmental psychology, etc.), to provide an optimum living environment for the widest range of ages.\n\nGerontechnology, which has also been called gerotechnology is considered an adjunct to the promotion of human health and well-being. It pertains to both human development and aging with the aim to compress morbidity and to increase vitality and quality of life throughout the life-span. It creates solutions to extend the working phase in society by maximizing the vital and productive years in the later years of life, which consequently reduces the cost of care.\n\nThe overall framework of gerontechnology may be seen as a matrix of domains of human activity: (1) health & self-esteem, housing & activities of daily living, communication & governance, mobility & transport, work & leisure, and (2) technology interventions or impact levels (enhancement & satisfaction, prevention & engagement, compensation & assistance, care and care organisation). Underpinning all these elements are generic and applied evidence-based research. Such research supports the development of products and services.\n\nGerontechnology has much in common with other interdisciplinary domains, such as Assistive Technology (for the compensation & assistance and the care support & care organisation rows of the matrix), and Universal Design for the development of all products and services pertaining to gerontechnology.\n\nGerontological design focuses on providing effective solutions to improve the way of life for aging people, through gerontological knowledge and design research methods to obtain a better understanding of individuals' preferences and requirements.\n\nGerontological design also refers specifically to the study and practice of building design methods that support elderly users in the built environment. Some universities host professors, commonly in architecture or interior design departments, that specialize in the study and teaching of this design specialization. Not only does this include the examination of building design characteristics that impact older adults' physiological well-being, but it can also include the investigation of building design characteristics that impact informational needs (i.e. finding one's way around in a space) or social interaction needs (Campbell, 2012).\n\nBetween 2008 and 2030, Singapore will witness an age profile shift in its population's history. In 2005, one in 12 residents was 65 years or older. By 2030, one in five residents will be 65 years or older. Studies show that in 2002, 7% of the world's population is aged 65 and above. By 2050, it is envisaged that the percentage could rise to nearly 17%. The aging population and its impact on economics, politics, education and lifestyle is no longer an isolated issue but a global concern. Products and services relevant to the \"silver industry\" or the \"mature market\" increasingly abound in the marketplace. The demand for designers with a keen sense for the aging population's needs who employ gerontological design process knowledge concomitantly rises.\n\nAn international academic journal with delayed open-access, Gerontechnology , is published by the International Society for Gerontechnology (ISG) .\n\nA comprehensive edited book \"Gerontechnology\" has been published in 2016.\n\n The first ISG Masterclass for PhD students in 2006 produced a scheme to support gerontechnological research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12239", "title": "Guilt (emotion)", "text": "Guilt (emotion)\n\nGuilt is a cognitive or an emotional experience that occurs when a person believes or realizes—accurately or not—that they have compromised their own standards of conduct or have violated a universal moral standard and bear significant responsibility for that violation.\nGuilt is closely related to the concept of remorse.\n\nGuilt is an important factor in perpetuating obsessive–compulsive disorder symptoms. Guilt and its associated causes, merits, and demerits are common themes in psychology and psychiatry. Both in specialized and in ordinary language, guilt is an affective state in which one experiences conflict at having done something that one believes one should not have done (or conversely, having not done something one believes one should have done). It gives rise to a feeling which does not go away easily, driven by 'conscience'. Sigmund Freud described this as the result of a struggle between the ego and the superego – parental imprinting. Freud rejected the role of God as punisher in times of illness or rewarder in time of wellness. While removing one source of guilt from patients, he described another. This was the unconscious force within the individual that contributed to illness, Freud in fact coming to consider \"the obstacle of an unconscious sense of guilt...as the most powerful of all obstacles to recovery.\" For his later explicator, Lacan, guilt was the inevitable companion of the signifying subject who acknowledged normality in the form of the Symbolic order.\n\nAlice Miller claims that \"many people suffer all their lives from this oppressive feeling of guilt, the sense of not having lived up to their parents' expectations...no argument can overcome these guilt feelings, for they have their beginnings in life's earliest period, and from that they derive their intensity.\" This may be linked to what Les Parrott has called \"the disease of false guilt...At the root of false guilt is the idea that what you \"feel\" must be true.\" If you \"feel\" guilty, you must \"be\" guilty!\n\nThe philosopher Martin Buber underlined the difference between the Freudian notion of guilt, based on internal conflicts, and \"existential guilt\", based on actual harm done to others.\n\nGuilt is often associated with anxiety. In mania, according to Otto Fenichel, the patient succeeds in applying to guilt \"the defense mechanism of denial by overcompensation...re-enacts being a person without guilt feelings.\"\n\nIn psychological research, guilt can be measured by using questionnaires, such as the Differential Emotions Scale (Izard's DES), or the Dutch Guilt Measurement Instrument.\n\nDefenses against feeling guilt can become an overriding aspect of one's personality. The methods that can be used to avoid guilt are multiple. They include:\n\nFeelings of guilt can prompt subsequent virtuous behavior. People who feel guilty may be more likely to exercise restraint, avoid self-indulgence, and exhibit less prejudice. Guilt appears to prompt reparatory behaviors to alleviate the negative emotions that it engenders. People appear to engage in targeted and specific reparatory behaviors toward the persons they wronged or offended.\n\nIndividuals high in psychopathy lack any true sense of guilt or remorse for harm they may have caused others. Instead, they rationalize their behavior, blame someone else, or deny it outright. A person with psychopathy has a tendency to be harmful to his or herself and to others. They have little ability to plan ahead for the future. An individual with psychopathy will never find themselves at fault because they will do whatever it takes to benefit themselves without reservation. A person that does not feel guilt or remorse would have no reason to find themselves at fault for something that they did with the intention of hurting another person. To a person high in psychopathy, their actions can always be rationalized to be the fault of another person. This is seen by psychologists as part of a lack of moral reasoning (in comparison with the majority of humans), an inability to evaluate situations in a moral framework, and an inability to develop emotional bonds with other people due to a lack of empathy.\n\nSome evolutionary psychologists theorize that guilt and shame helped maintain beneficial relationships, such as reciprocal altruism. If a person feels guilty when he harms another, or even fails to reciprocate kindness, he is more likely not to harm others or become too selfish. In this way, he reduces the chances of retaliation by members of his tribe, and thereby increases his survival prospects, and those of the tribe or group. As with any other emotion, guilt can be manipulated to control or influence others. As highly social animals living in large, relatively stable groups, humans need ways to deal with conflicts and events in which they inadvertently or purposefully harm others. If someone causes harm to another, and then feels guilt and demonstrates regret and sorrow, the person harmed is likely to forgive. Thus, guilt makes it possible to forgive, and helps hold the social group together.\n\nWhen we see another person suffering, it can also cause us pain. This constitutes our powerful system of empathy, which leads to our thinking that we should do something to relieve the suffering of others. If we cannot help another, or fail in our efforts, we experience feelings of guilt. From the perspective of group selection, groups that are made up of a high percentage of co-operators outdo groups with a low percentage of co-operators in between-group competition. People who are more prone to high levels of empathy-based guilt may be likely to suffer from anxiety and depression; however, they are also more likely to cooperate and behave altruistically. This suggests that guilt-proneness may not always be beneficial at the level of the individual, or within-group competition, but highly beneficial in between-group competition.\n\nAnother common notion is that guilt is assigned by social processes, such as a jury trial (i. e., that it is a strictly legal concept). Thus, the ruling of a jury that O. J. Simpson or Julius Rosenberg was \"guilty\" or \"not innocent\" is taken as an actual judgment by the whole society that they must act as if they were so. By corollary, the ruling that such a person is \"not guilty\" may not be so taken, due to the asymmetry in the assumption that one is assumed innocent until proven guilty, and prefers to take the risk of freeing a guilty party over convicting innocents. Still others—often, but not always, theists of one type or another—believe that the origin of guilt comes from violating universal principles of right and wrong. In most instances, people who believe this also acknowledge that even though there is proper guilt from doing 'wrong' instead of doing 'right', people endure all sorts of guilty feelings which do not stem from violating universal moral principles.\n\nCollective guilt (or group guilt) is the unpleasant and often emotional reaction that results among a group of individuals when it is perceived that the group illegitimately harmed members of another group. It is often the result of “sharing a social identity with others whose actions represent a threat to the positivity of that identity.” For an individual to experience collective guilt, he must identify himself as a part of the in-group. “This produces a perceptual shift from thinking of oneself in terms of ‘I’ and ‘me’ to ‘us’ or ‘we’.”\n\nTraditional Japanese society, Korean society and Chinese culture are sometimes said to be \"shame-based\" rather than \"guilt-based\", in that the social consequences of \"getting caught\" are seen as more important than the individual feelings or experiences of the agent (see the work of Ruth Benedict). The same has been said of Ancient Greek society, a culture where, in Bruno Snell's words, if \"honour is destroyed the moral existence of the loser collapses.\"\n\nThis may lead to more of a focus on etiquette than on ethics as understood in Western civilization, leading some in Western civilizations to question why the word \"ethos\" was adapted from Ancient Greek with such vast differences in cultural norms. Christianity and Islam inherit most notions of guilt from Judaism, Persian, and Roman ideas, mostly as interpreted through Augustine, who adapted Plato's ideas to Christianity. The Latin word for guilt is \"culpa\", a word sometimes seen in law literature, for instance in \"mea culpa\" meaning \"my fault (guilt)\".\n\nGuilt, from O.E. \"gylt\" \"crime, sin, fault, fine, debt\", derived from O.E. \"gieldan\" \"to pay for, debt\". The mistaken use for \"sense of guilt\" is first recorded in 1690. \"Guilt by association\" is first recorded in 1941. \"Guilty\" is from O.E. \"gyltig\", from \"gylt\".\n\nGuilt is a main theme in John Steinbeck's \"East of Eden\", Fyodor Dostoyevsky's \"Crime and Punishment\", Tennessee Williams' \"A Streetcar Named Desire\", William Shakespeare's play \"Macbeth\", Edgar Allan Poe's \"The Tell-Tale Heart\" and \"The Black Cat\", and many other works of literature. In Sartre's \"The Flies\", the Furies (in the form of flies) represent the morbid, strangling forces of neurotic guilt which bind us to authoritarian and totalitarian power.\n\nGuilt is a major theme in many works by Nathaniel Hawthorne, and is an almost universal concern of novelists who explore inner life and secrets.\n\nGuilt in the Christian Bible is not merely an emotional state but is a legal state of deserving punishment. The Hebrew Bible does not have a unique word for guilt, but uses a single word to signify: \"sin, the guilt of it, the punishment due unto it, and a sacrifice for it.\" The Greek New Testament uses a word for guilt that means \"standing exposed to judgment for sin\" (e. g., Romans 3:19). In what Christians call the \"Old Testament\", Christians believe the Bible teaches that, through sacrifice, one's sins can be forgiven (Judaism categorically rejects this idea, holding that forgiveness of sin is exclusively through repentance, and the role of sacrifices was for atonement of sins committed by accident or ignorance ). The New Testament says that this forgiveness is given as written in 1 Corinthians 15:3–4: \"3 For what I received I passed on to you as of first importance: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, for that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures.\" Some believe that the Old and New Testaments have differing opinions on the expiation of guilt because the Old Testaments were subject to the Age of Law and the New Testaments replace the Age of Law with the now current Age of Grace. However, both in the Old Testament and the New Testament salvation was granted based on God's grace and forgiveness (Gen 6:8; 19:19; Exo 33:12–17; 34:6–7). Animal sacrifices were only a symbol of the future sacrifice of Jesus Christ (Heb 10:1–4; 9–12). The whole world is guilty before God for abandoning him and his ways (Rom 3:19). In Jesus Christ, God took upon himself the sins of the world and died on the cross to pay our debt (Rom 6:23). Those who repent and accept the sacrifice of Jesus Christ for their sins, will be redeemed by God and thus not guilty before him. They will be granted eternal life which will take effect when Jesus comes the second time (1 Thess 4:13–18). In contrast to surrounding nations which addressed their guilt with human sacrifice, the Israeli authors of the Bible called that an abomination (1 Kings 11:7, Jer 32:35). The Bible agrees with pagan cultures that guilt creates a cost that someone must pay (Heb 9:22). (This assumption was expressed in the previous section, \"Defences\": \"Guilty people punish themselves if they have no opportunity to compensate the transgression that caused them to feel guilty. It was found that self-punishment did not occur if people had an opportunity to compensate the victim of their transgression.\") But unlike pagan deities who demanded it be paid by humans, God, according to the Bible, loved us enough to pay it Himself, as a good father would, while calling us His \"children\" and calling Himself our \"father\" (Mat 5:45).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5278085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5278085", "title": "Harald Aabrekk", "text": "Harald Aabrekk\n\nHarald Olav Aabrekk (born 22 February 1956) is a Norwegian football coach and a former player. He played for Sogndal and Brann in the Tippeligaen, Norway's top professional football league. He has been head coach of Sogndal, Tromsø, Brann, Haugesund, Vålerenga and Aalesund, and has also served as an assistant coach for the Norwegian national football team.\n\nAabrekk made his debut for Sogndal in 1974 in the Norwegian Second Division (the third tier of Norwegian football). Except for a short spell at SK Brann, where he played a match in the Tippeligaen (the top division) in 1978, he played for Sogndal throughout his career and was a major contributor to their promotion to the Norwegian First Division in 1981. He scored Sogndal's first goal in that division, against Molde in 1982. He played a total of 133 league games from 1973 to 1982, including 22 matches in the First Division in 1982.\n\nAabrekk started his coaching career in his home county, Sogn og Fjordane, at lower-league clubs Eid, Sandane, and Stryn, before becoming head coach of Sogndal. In 1990, his first season with them, Sogndal was promoted to the Tippeligaen in spite of a 5–0 loss against Bryne in their first home match. He then served as head coach of Tromsø in the Tippeligaen from 1993 to 1995.\n\nIn 1995, during a match against Bodø/Glimt, Aabrekk tried to stall for time by acting as if he were injured after he was run down by Bodø/Glimt's physiotherapist Truls Karlsen. Although uninjured, he was taken by ambulance to hospital. In an interview with \"Verdens Gang\", he excused his behavior by saying, \"I felt I was lying on the ground a bit too long, and I did not dare to get up so I stayed on the ground. I lay there and was thinking, 'What's going on?' It was not planned, and it was definitely not very smart. I would rather call it a blackout.\" This episode, according to the Norwegian newspaper \"Dagbladet\", was the third worst case of acting in the history of football.\n\nAabrekk later worked for the Football Association of Norway as a coordinator for youth development in Western Norway. He also served as Nils Johan Semb's assistant coach for the Norwegian under-21 team from 1992 to 1998, and when Semb succeeded Egil Olsen as head coach of the Norwegian national team in 1998, Aabrekk became assistant coach of the national senior team. At the same time, he worked as Kjell Tennfjord's assistant in Brann, and in the summer of 1998 he became their head coach. After leading Brann to the finals of the 1999 Norwegian Cup, where they lost 2–0 against Rosenborg, he received a one-year leave of absence to work full-time as assistant coach of the national team during their preparations for the UEFA Euro 2000 football championship. He resigned from his job at Brann without returning, because Brann had already hired Teitur Thordarson as their head coach and offered Aabrekk a position in their youth department, a job Brann claimed it was impossible to combine with the position of assistant coach of the national team.\n\nIn 2002 Aabrekk joined Sogndal as Torbjørn Glomnes's assistant coach and saved the team from relegation. On 17 September 2002 Haugesund announced that Aabrekk would join them as head coach on 1 December. In a match against Start on 19 October 2003, Aabrekk told referee Bjørn Hansen that he was \"bought and paid for\" twice after Aabrekk was dismissed from the bench. He was at Haugesund until the end of the 2005 season, when he joined Vålerenga's coaching staff along with Egil Olsen and Petter Myhre. On 27 July 2007 Myhre resigned as head coach of Vålerenga and Aabrekk was appointed head coach as caretaker. Following two wins and a draw in the next three matches, Vålerenga gave him the job until the end of the season.\n\nIn 2008 Aabrekk was hired by Brann as a scout. Halfway through the season, the club wanted Aabrekk and the assistant coach, Espen Steffensen, to switch jobs. Steffensen did not accept this and was fired, and Aabrekk became the new assistant coach of Brann, against the wishes of head coach Mons Ivar Mjelde. Following Brann's bad performances and local press criticism of the lack of cooperation between Mjelde and Aabrekk, Mjelde announced on 7 October 2008 that he would resign as head coach at the end of the season. At the same time, the club announced that Aabrekk would return immediately to his job as scout, a position he kept until the contract expired.\n\nAabrekk was then hired as head coach of his old club, Sogndal from 1 January 2010, succeeding Karl Oskar Emberland. In his first season there, the team won promotion to the Tippeligaen, and in the next they avoided relegation. Following the 2011 season, Aabrekk retired. In his last match, he was named \"Best Sogndal coach ever\".\n\nAabrekk was hired as manager for Aalesunds FK before the 2015 season, but sacked four matches into the season, when his club was last in the league.\n"}
{"id": "2169038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2169038", "title": "Homochirality", "text": "Homochirality\n\nHomochirality is a uniformity of chirality, or handedness. Objects are \"chiral\" when they cannot be superposed on their mirror images. For example, the left and right hands of a human are approximately mirror images of each other but are not their own mirror images, so they are \"chiral\". In biology, 19 of the 20 natural amino acids are homochiral, being -chiral (left-handed), while sugars are -chiral (right-handed). \"Homochirality\" can also refer to \"enantiomerically pure\" substances in which all the constituents are the same enantiomer (a right-handed or left-handed version of an atom or molecule), but some sources discourage this use of the term.\n\nIt is unclear whether homochirality has a purpose, however, it appears to be a form of information storage. One suggestion is that it reduces entropy barriers in the formation of large organized molecules. It has been experimentally verified that amino acids form large aggregates in larger abundance from enantiopure substrates than from racemic ones.\n\nIt is not clear whether homochirality emerged before or after life, and many mechanisms for its origin have been proposed. Some of these models propose three distinct steps: \"mirror-symmetry breaking\" creates a minute enantiomeric imbalance, \"chiral amplification\" builds on this imbalance, and \"chiral transmission\" is the transfer of chirality from one set of molecules to another.\n\nAmino acids are the building blocks of peptides and enzymes while sugar-peptide chains are the backbone of RNA and DNA. In biological organisms, amino acids appear almost exclusively in the left-handed form (-amino acids) and sugars in the right-handed form (R-sugars). Since the enzymes catalyze reactions, they enforce homochirality on a great variety of other chemicals, including hormones, toxins, fragrances and food flavors. Glycine is achiral, as are some other non-proteinogenic amino acids are either achiral (such as dimethylglycine) or of the enantiomeric form.\n\nBiological organisms easily discriminate between molecules with different chiralities. This can affect physiological reactions such as smell and taste. Carvone, a terpenoid found in essential oils, smells like mint in its L-form and caraway in its R-form. Limonene tastes like lemons when right-handed and oranges when left-handed.\n\nHomochirality also affects the response to drugs. Thalidomide, in its left-handed form, cures morning sickness; in its right-handed form, it causes birth defects. Unfortunately, even if a pure left-handed version is administered, some of it can convert to the right-handed form in the patient. Many drugs are available as both a racemic mixture (equal amounts of both chiralities) and an enantiopure drug (only one chirality). Depending on the manufacturing process, enantiopure forms can be more expensive to produce than stereochemical mixtures.\n\nChiral preferences can also be found at a macroscopic level. Snail shells can be right-turning or left-turning helices, but one form or the other is strongly preferred in a given species. In the edible snail \"Helix pomatia\", only one out of 20,000 is left-helical. The coiling of plants can have a preferred chirality and even the chewing motion of cows has a 10% excess in one direction.\n\nKnown mechanisms for the production of non-racemic mixtures from racemic starting materials include: asymmetric physical laws, such as the electroweak interaction; asymmetric environments, such as those caused by circularly polarized light, quartz crystals, or the Earth's rotation; and statistical fluctuations during racemic synthesis. Once established, chirality would be selected for. A small enantiomeric excess can be amplified into a large one by asymmetric autocatalysis, such as in the Soai reaction. In asymmetric autocatalysis, the catalyst is a chiral molecule, which means that a chiral molecule is catalysing its own production. An initial enantiomeric excess, such as can be produced by polarized light, then allows the more abundant enantiomer to outcompete the other.\n\nOne supposition is that the discovery of an enantiomeric imbalance in molecules in the Murchison meteorite supports an extraterrestrial origin of homochirality: there is evidence for the existence of circularly polarized light originating from Mie scattering on aligned interstellar dust particles which may trigger the formation of an enantiomeric excess within chiral material in space. Interstellar and near-stellar magnetic fields can align dust particles in this fashion. Another speculation (the Vester-Ulbricht hypothesis) suggests that fundamental chirality of physical processes such as that of the beta decay (see Parity violation) leads to slightly different half-lives of biologically relevant molecules. Homochirality may also result from spontaneous absolute asymmetric synthesis.\n\nIt is also possible that homochirality is simply a result of the natural autoamplification process of life—that either the formation of life as preferring one chirality or the other was a chance rare event which happened to occur with the chiralities we observe, or that all chiralities of life emerged rapidly but due to catastrophic events and strong competition, the other unobserved chiral preferences were wiped out by the preponderance and metabolic, enantiomeric enrichment from the 'winning' chirality choices. The emergence of chirality consensus as a natural autoamplification process has been associated with the 2nd law of thermodynamics.\n\nIn 1953, Charles Frank proposed a model to demonstrate that homochirality is a consequence of autocatalysis. In his model the and enantiomers of a chiral molecule are autocatalytically produced from an achiral molecule A\n\nwhile suppressing each other through a reaction that he called \"mutual antagonism\"\nIn this model the racemic state is unstable in the sense that the slightest enantiomeric excess will be amplified to a completely homochiral state. This can be shown by computing the reaction rates from the law of mass action:\nwhere formula_2 is the rate constant for the autocatalytic reactions, formula_3 is the rate constant for mutual antagonism reaction, and the concentration of A is kept constant for simplicity. By defining the enantiomeric excess formula_4 as\nwe can compute the rate of change of enatiomeric excess using chain rule from the rate of change of the concentrations of enantiomeres and .\nLinear stability analysis of this equation shows that the racemic state formula_7 is unstable. Starting from almost everywhere in the concentration space, the system evolves to a homochiral state.\n\nIt is generally understood that autocatalysis alone does not yield to homochirality, and the presence of the mutually antagonistic relationship between the two enantiomers is necessary for the instability of the racemic mixture. However, recent studies show that homochirality could be achieved from autocatalysis in the absence of the mutually antagonistic relationship, but the underlying mechanism for symmetry-breaking is different.\n\nThere are several laboratory experiments that demonstrate how a small amount of one enantiomer at the start of a reaction can lead to a large excess of a single enantiomer as the product. For example, the Soai reaction is autocatalytic. If the reaction is started with some of one of the product enantiomers already present, the product acts as an enantioselective catalyst for production of more of that same enantiomer. The initial presence of just 0.2 equivalent one enantiomer can lead to up to 93% enantiomeric excess of the product.\n\nAnother study concerns the proline catalyzed aminoxylation of propionaldehyde by nitrosobenzene. In this system, a small enantiomeric excess of catalyst leads to a large enantiomeric excess of product.\n\nSerine octamer clusters are also contenders. These clusters of 8 serine molecules appear in mass spectrometry with an unusual homochiral preference, however there is no evidence that such clusters exist under non-ionizing conditions and amino acid phase behavior is far more prebiotically relevant. The recent observation that partial sublimation of a 10% enantioenriched sample of leucine results in up to 82% enrichment in the sublimate shows that enantioenrichment of amino acids could occur in space. Partial sublimation processes can take place on the surface of meteors where large variations in temperature exist. This finding may have consequences for the development of the Mars Organic Detector scheduled for launch in 2013 which aims to recover trace amounts of amino acids from the Mars surface exactly by a sublimation technique.\n\nA high asymmetric amplification of the enantiomeric excess of sugars are also present in the amino acid catalyzed asymmetric formation of carbohydrates\n\nOne classic study involves an experiment that takes place in the laboratory. When sodium chlorate is allowed to crystallize from water and the collected crystals examined in a polarimeter, each crystal turns out to be chiral and either the form or the form. In an ordinary experiment the amount of crystals collected equals the amount of crystals (corrected for statistical effects). However, when the sodium chlorate solution is stirred during the crystallization process the crystals are either exclusively or exclusively . In 32 consecutive crystallization experiments 14 experiments deliver -crystals and 18 others -crystals. The explanation for this symmetry breaking is unclear but is related to autocatalysis taking place in the nucleation process.\n\nIn a related experiment, a crystal suspension of a racemic amino acid derivative continuously stirred, results in a 100% crystal phase of one of the enantiomers because the enantiomeric pair is able to equilibrate in solution (compare with dynamic kinetic resolution).\n\nMany strategies in asymmetric synthesis are built on chiral transmission. Especially important is the so-called organocatalysis of organic reactions by proline for example in Mannich reactions.\n\nThere exists no theory elucidating correlations among -amino acids. If one takes, for example, alanine, which has a small methyl group, and phenylalanine, which has a larger benzyl group, a simple question is in what aspect, -alanine resembles -phenylalanine more than -phenylalanine, and what kind of mechanism causes the selection of all -amino acids. Because it might be possible that alanine was and phenylalanine was .\n\nIt was reported in 2004 that excess racemic ,-asparagine (Asn), which spontaneously forms crystals of either isomer during recrystallization, induces asymmetric resolution of a co-existing racemic amino acid such as arginine (Arg), aspartic acid (Asp), glutamine (Gln), histidine (His), leucine (Leu), methionine (Met), phenylalanine (Phe), serine (Ser), valine (Val), tyrosine (Tyr), and tryptophan (Trp). The enantiomeric excess of these amino acids was correlated almost linearly with that of the inducer, i.e., Asn. When recrystallizations from a mixture of 12 ,-amino acids (Ala, Asp, Arg, Glu, Gln, His, Leu, Met, Ser, Val, Phe, and Tyr) and excess ,-Asn were made, all amino acids with the same configuration with Asn were preferentially co-crystallized. It was incidental whether the enrichment took place in - or -Asn, however, once the selection was made, the co-existing amino acid with the same configuration at the α-carbon was preferentially involved because of thermodynamic stability in the crystal formation. The maximal ee was reported to be 100%. Based on these results, it is proposed that a mixture of racemic amino acids causes spontaneous and effective optical resolution, even if asymmetric synthesis of a single amino acid does not occur without an aid of an optically active molecule.\n\nThis is the first study elucidating reasonably the formation of chirality from racemic amino acids with experimental evidences.\n\nThis term was introduced by Kelvin in 1904, the year that he published his Baltimore Lecture of 1884. Kelvin used the term homochirality as a relationship between two molecules, i.e. two molecule are homochiral if they have the same chirality. Recently, however, homochiral has been used in the same sense as enantiomerically pure. This is permitted in some journals (but not encouraged), its meaning changing into the preference of a process or system for a single optical isomer in a pair of isomers in these journals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166213", "title": "Human condition", "text": "Human condition\n\nThe human condition is \"the characteristics, key events, and situations which compose the essentials of human existence, such as birth, growth, emotionality, aspiration, conflict, and mortality\". This is a very broad topic which has been and continues to be pondered and analyzed from many perspectives, including those of religion, philosophy, history, art, literature, anthropology, psychology, and biology.\n\nAs a literary term, \"the human condition\" is typically used in the context of ambiguous subjects such as the meaning of life or moral concerns.\n\nEach major religion has definitive beliefs regarding the human condition. For example, Buddhism teaches that life is a perpetual cycle of suffering, death, and rebirth from which humans can be liberated via the Noble Eightfold Path. Meanwhile, Christianity teaches that humans are born in a sinful condition and are doomed in the afterlife unless they receive salvation through Jesus Christ.\n\nPhilosophers have provided many perspectives. An influential ancient view was that of the \"Republic\" in which Plato explored the question \"what is justice?\" and postulated that it is not primarily a matter among individuals but of society as a whole, prompting him to devise a utopia. Two thousand years later René Descartes declared \"I think, therefore I am\" because he believed the human mind, particularly its faculty of reason, to be the primary determiner of truth; for this he is often credited as the father of modern philosophy. One such modern school, existentialism, attempts to reconcile an individual's sense of disorientation and confusion in a universe believed to be absurd.\n\nMany works of literature provide perspective on the human condition. One famous example is Shakespeare's monologue \"All the world's a stage\" that pensively summarizes seven phases of human life.\n\nPsychology has many theories, such as Maslow's hierarchy of needs and the notion of identity crisis. It also has various methods, e.g. the logotherapy developed by Holocaust survivor Viktor Frankl to discover and affirm human meaning. Another method, cognitive behavioral therapy, has become a widespread treatment for clinical depression.\n\nEver since 1859, when Charles Darwin published \"On the Origin of Species\", the biological theory of evolution has been significant. The theory posits that the human species is related to all others, living and extinct, and that natural selection is the primary survival factor. This has provided a basis for new beliefs, e.g. social Darwinism, and for new technology, e.g. antibiotics.\n\nNotable uses of the term \"the human condition\" include André Malraux's novel \"Man's Fate\", René Magritte's painting \"La Condition Humaine\", Hannah Arendt's political philosophy, and Masaki Kobayashi's film trilogy.\n\n"}
{"id": "15168040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15168040", "title": "Iiro Aalto", "text": "Iiro Aalto\n\nIiro Aalto (born 19 July 1977) is a Finnish former football player. He started his career with Finnish football club Pallo-Iirot, then moved to FC Haka and spent most of his career at Helsingin Jalkapalloklubi but from December 2007 played for Cypriot club Olympiakos Nicosia.\nAalto returned to Finland in May 2008 to play for Tampere United. After his loan spell at Tampere he moved to TPS Turku.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22506127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22506127", "title": "Inherent chirality", "text": "Inherent chirality\n\nIn chemistry, inherent chirality is a property of asymmetry in molecules arising, not from a stereogenic or chiral center, but from a twisting of the molecule in 3-D space. The term was first coined by Volker Boehmer in a 1994 review, to describe the chirality of calixarenes arising from their non-planar structure in 3-D space.\n\nThis phenomena was described as resulting from “the absence of a place of symmetry or an inversion center in the molecule as a whole.” Boehmer further explains this phenomena by suggesting that if an inherently chiral calixarene macrocycle were opened up it would produce an “achiral linear molecule.” There are two commonly used notations to describe a molecules inherent chirality: cR/cS (arising from the notation used for classically chiral compounds, with \"c\" denoting curvature) and P/M. Inherently chiral molecules, like their classically chiral counterparts, can be used in chiral host-guest chemistry, enantioselective synthesis, and other applications. There are naturally occurring inherently chiral molecules as well. Retinal, a chromophore in rhodopsin. exists in solution as a racemic pair of enantiomers due to the curvature of an achiral polyene chain.\n\nAfter creating a series of traditionally chiral calixarenes (through the addition of a chiral substituent group on the top or bottom rim of the macrocycle,) the first inherently chiral calixarenes were synthesized in 1982, though the molecules were not yet described as such. The inherently chiral calixarenes featured an XXYZ or WXYZ substitution pattern, such that the planar representation of the molecule does not show any chirality, and if the macrocycle were to be broken open, this would produce an achiral linear molecule. The chirality in these calixarenes is instead derived from the curvature of the molecule in space.\nDue to the initial lack of a formal definition after the initial conception, the term inherent chirality was utilized to describe a variety of chiral molecules that don’t fall into other defined chirality types. The first fully formulated definition of inherent chirality was published in 2004 by Mandolini and Schiaffino, (and later modified by Szumna):\n\n\"“inherent chirality arises from the introduction of a curvature in an ideal planar structure that is devoid of perpendicular symmetry planes in its bidimensional representation.\"\"\n\nInherent chirality has been known by a variety of names in the literature including bowl chirality (in fullerene fragments), intrinsic chirality, helicity (see section 3a) residual enantiomers (as applied to sterically hindered molecular propellers,) and cyclochirality (though this is often considered to be a more specific example and cannot be applied to all inherently chiral molecules.\n\nA simple example of inherent chirality is that of corannulene commonly referred to as “bowl chirality” in the literature. The chirality of an unsubstituted corranulene (containing no classic stereogenic centers) cannot be seen in a 2D representation, but becomes clear when a 3D representation is evoked, as the C symmetry of corranulenes provides the molecules with a source of chirality (figure 2.) Racemization of these molecules is possible through an inversion of curvature, though some inherently chiral molecules have inversion barriers comparable to a classic chiral center.\n\nSome inherently chiral molecules contain chirality planes, or planes within a given molecules across which the molecule is dissymmetric. Paracyclophanes often contain chiral planes if the bridge across the phenylene unit is short enough, or if the phenylene contains another substituent, not in the bridge, that hinders rotation of the phenylene unit.\n\nSimilar to chirality planes, chirality axes arise from an axis about which the spatial arrangement of substituents creates chirality. This can be seen in helical molecules (see section 3a) as well as some alkenes.\n\nHelical molecules are considered to have inherent chirality, but this is sometimes referred to as helical chirality or \"helicity\". The IUPAC definition of helicity is: \"chirality of a helical, propeller or screw-shaped molecular entity.\" Helicenes (figure 4) are chiral polycyclic aromatic compounds that lack conventional chiral centers, but are chiral due to the helical shape of the 3D molecules.\n\nSpiro compounds (compounds with a twisted structure of two or more rings) can have inherent chirality at the spiroatom, due to the twisting of the achiral ring system.\n\nInherently chiral alkenes have been synthesized through the use of a “buckle” where in an achiral, linear alkene is forced into a chiral conformation. Alkenes have no classical chirality, so generally, an external stereogenic center must be introduced. However, by locking the alkene into a conformation through the use of an achiral buckle allows for the creation of an inherently chiral alkene. Inherently chiral alkenes have been synthesized through the use of dialkoxysilanes, with a large enough racemization barrier that enantiomers have been isolated.\n"}
{"id": "37446864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37446864", "title": "Jennifer Aaker", "text": "Jennifer Aaker\n\nJennifer Aaker (born 1967, California) is an American social psychologist, author and General Atlantic Professor of Marketing at Stanford Graduate School of Business. Best known for her research on time, money and happiness, Aaker also focuses on the transmission of ideas through social networks, the power of story in decision making, and how to build global brands across cultures. She is the recipient of the Distinguished Scientific Achievement Award from the Society for Consumer Psychology and the Stanford Distinguished Teaching Award.\n\nAaker was born in Palo Alto, California, to Kay Aaker, and David Aaker, a professor and brand consultant. Aaker attended the University of California, Berkeley, where she studied under social psychologist Philip E. Tetlock and Nobel Prize winner Daniel Kahneman, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in 1989. In 1990, Aaker began postgraduate work at Stanford Graduate School of Business, earning a Ph.D. in marketing with a minor in psychology in 1995. Her dissertation on brand personality led to the publication of three academic papers in \"Journal of Marketing Research\" and \"Journal of Consumer Research\" and won several awards.\n\nAaker began her academic career in 1995 as an assistant professor at the UCLA Anderson School of Management. In 1999, she returned to the Stanford Graduate School of Business as an assistant professor, was promoted to associate professor in 2001, and earned a full professorship in 2004. In 2005, Aaker was named General Atlantic Professor of Marketing. Her work has been published in scholarly journals in psychology and marketing and has been highlighted in \"The Economist\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The Washington Post\", \"BusinessWeek\", \"Forbes,\" NPR, \"CBS MoneyWatch\", \"Inc.\" and \"Science.\" She serves as an advisory board member for several private companies.\n\nAs a social psychologist and marketer, Aaker began her research career by proposing a \"Dimensions of Brand Personality\" framework to describe and measure the \"personality\" of a brand, defined as the set of human characteristics associated with it. The five core dimensions are Sincerity, Excitement, Competence, Sophistication, and Ruggedness. In a global analysis of brands, Aaker and her colleagues revealed two novel brand personality dimensions. In Japan, individuals viewed brands as Peaceful, and in Spain, individuals viewed brands as Passionate. Aaker’s model showed that brand personality dimensions influence consumer preference and choice and provided a framework that illuminated how to build strong global brands that meet multi-cultural needs.\n\nIn 2002, Aaker shifted her research focus to understanding time, money and happiness. In this work, she suggested that time is a resource that, like money, is not only important but more subjective than we think. In 2010, she published two papers with Sep Kamvar and Cassie Mogilner on the dynamic meaning of happiness. Prior research had suggested that the meaning of happiness is either similar across individuals, or highly subjective and idiosyncratic. Aaker and her colleagues show that the answer lies between the two and that there is in fact a predictable shift in the meaning of happiness and how it is experienced over one's life and even within the day or week. The research also showed that the meaning of happiness that one holds impacts the choices people make.\n\nAaker has also examined questions such as why people give to others, how small acts create significant change, and how those effects can be fueled by social media.\n\nIn 2010, Aaker and her husband, startup advisor Andy Smith, authored the book \"The Dragonfly Effect: Quick, Effective and Powerful Ways to Use Social Media to Drive Social Change.\" With a title inspired by the dragonfly’s unique ability to propel itself in any direction when its four wings worked in concert, the book examined the manner in which synchronized ideas can be used to create rapid transformations through social media. A literary award winner,[5] \"The Dragonfly Effect\" has been translated into over 10 languages. In 2013, Aaker, Smith and McCarthy published \"The Power of Stories\", a companion to \"The Dragonfly Effect\", which further explored social media through psychological insight and provided a hands-on tool to help companies put the model to work.\n\nIn a real world demonstration of the Dragonfly Effect, Aaker and her students founded 100K Cheeks. an organization dedicated to registering 100,000 South Asian donors in the National Bone Marrow Registry. In addition to utilizing social networks, Aaker ran the first ever cheek swab in India; as a result of these efforts, 100K Cheeks exceeded their goal by registering more than 115,000 potential donors. \"Social media is not inherently meaningful,\" Aaker said in an interview on the subject. \"Yet the power of social technology, when fully engaged, can be nothing short of revolutionary.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55914454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55914454", "title": "Jyri Aalto", "text": "Jyri Aalto\n\nJyri Aalto (born 11 July 1969) is a Finnish badminton player. He competed in the singles event at the 2000 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "50530504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50530504", "title": "Kathryn Aalto", "text": "Kathryn Aalto\n\nKathryn Aalto is an American landscape designer, historian, educator and New York Times Bestselling author based in Exeter, England.\n\nKathryn Aalto grew up between San Francisco and the Sierras in California's San Joaquin Valley where she developed a lifelong interest in landscape history, design and literature of place. She was educated at the University of California at Berkeley, Western Washington University, the London College of Garden Design and the University of Bristol, from which she received a Bachelor’s in English, a Master’s in English, a Diploma in Garden Design and a Master’s in Garden History.\n\nKathryn Aalto is best known for her book, \"The Natural World of Winnie-the-Pooh: A Walk Through the Forest that Inspired the Hundred Acre Wood,\" published in 2015 by Timber Press, which became a New York Times Bestseller in February 2016. It was featured on NPR's \"All Things Considered\" on October 26, 2015 and selected as a People magazine Best Pick in Nonfiction in November 2015. Extensive coverage of the book included an article and review in The Washington Post, articles in The Boston Globe and The Oregonian, as well as radio interviews on NPR, WAMC and MPR. She is also the author of Nature and Human Intervention for Italian garden designer Luciano Guibbilei.\n\n\nAs an educator, she has taught American Literature of Nature and Place, Critical Thinking and Composition and other writing courses at Western Washington University, Everett Community College and Exeter College where she is an adjunct lecturer. A dynamic public speaker, Kathryn Aalto lectures widely, both in the United States and England, on landscape history and creative careers to libraries, schools, historical societies, botanical gardens, universities and civic clubs. Past venues have included Harvard Universities Arnold Arboretum, The New York Public Library, the Northwest Flower and Garden Show and the Virginia Festival of the Book. She also gives inspirational talks on interdisciplinary careers, creativity and writing.\n\nKathryn Aalto resides in Exeter, England. She has lived in Escalon, Berkeley, Seattle, Monroe and Exeter, England\n\n"}
{"id": "52008609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52008609", "title": "Katrine Aalerud", "text": "Katrine Aalerud\n\nKatrine Aalerud (born 4 December 1994) is a Norwegian professional racing cyclist. She rode in the women's road race at the 2016 UCI Road World Championships, finishing in 39th place.\n"}
{"id": "4125264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4125264", "title": "List of people claimed to be immortal in myth and legend", "text": "List of people claimed to be immortal in myth and legend\n\nThis is a list of people claimed to be immortal. This list does not reference purely spiritual entities (spirits, gods, demons, angels), non-humans (monsters, aliens, elves), or artificial life (artificial intelligence, robots).\n\nThis list comprises people claimed to achieve a deathless existence on Earth. This list does not contain those people who are supposed to have attained immortality through the typical means of a religion, such as a Christian in Heaven. It also does not include people whose immortality involves living in a place not on Earth, such as Heracles on Mount Olympus or the Eight Immortals of Taoism in Mount Penglai. It also does not include people who, according to their religion, became deities or actually were deities the whole time, such as Jesus of Nazareth (who as part of the Trinity was, according to Christianity, also God) or Parashurama according to Hindu mythology. \n\nThese listings are in chronological order, though some dates are approximate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3181120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3181120", "title": "Missional living", "text": "Missional living\n\nIn Christianity, missional living is the adoption of the posture, thinking, behaviors, and practices of a missionary in order to engage others with the gospel message. The missional church movement, a church renewal movement predicated on the necessity of missional living by Christians, gained popularity at the end of the twentieth century due to advocates like Tim Keller and others in the Gospel and Our Culture Network. Advocates contrast missional living with the concept of a select group of \"professional\" missionaries, emphasizing that all Christians should be involved in the Great Commission of Jesus Christ.\n\nThe missional living concept is rooted in the \"Missio dei\" (Latin, \"the sending of God\"). In 1934, Karl Hartenstein, a German missiologist, coined the phrase in response to Karl Barth and his emphasis on \"actio Dei\" (\"the action of God\"). In their view, missional activities stemming from God. The Triune God is the primary acting agent in the world and within the church.\n\nAccording to Lesslie Newbigin and Jesus' statements in the Gospel according to John, every Christian has been sent by Jesus with the gospel together in community to those in the surrounding culture for the sake of the King and His kingdom: “The Church is sent into the world to continue that which he came to do, in the power of the same Spirit, reconciling people to God.” Jesus said, “As the Father has sent Me, I am sending you” (John 20:21).\n\n\"No one can say: ‘Since I’m not called to be a missionary, I do not have to evangelize my friends and neighbors.’ There is no difference, in spiritual terms, between a missionary witnessing in his home town and a missionary witnessing in Katmandu, Nepal. We are all called to go—even if it is only to the next room, or the next block.”\"\n\"Missional living\" is the embodiment of the mission of Jesus in the world by incarnating the gospel. \"It is imperative that Christians be like Jesus, by living freely within the culture as missionaries who are as faithful to the Father and his gospel as Jesus was in his own time and place.\" This embodiment of the gospel is often referred to as \"contextualization\" or \"inculturation.\"\n\n\"Both refer to more than a simple translation of the gospel into different languages and cultures in the way that one translates a history book or a science text. Rather, they point to the embodiment of the living Word in human culture and social settings in such a way that its divine nature and power are not lost. True contextualization is more than communication. It is God working in the hearts of people, making them new and forming them into a new community. It is his Word transforming their lives, their societies, their cultures.\"\nThese five biblical distinctives form the foundation of a missional perspective:\n\n\nJesus sent His disciples on a mission. The missional church defines itself in terms of its mission—being sent ones who take the gospel to and incarnate the gospel within a specific culture. \n\"Jesus was the first apostle. He was sent by his Father. He, in turn, sent the Twelve. They went to people who would then take the gospel to the rest of the world. Whoever received it would understand that they, too, had been sent. With the gospel being what it is, the church as bearer of the gospel is bound to be apostolic.\"\nJesus Christ said that He came to earth to seek and to save that which was lost (Luke 19:10). He accomplished salvation through the cross. By dying on the cross, He paid the penalty for sin and satisfied God’s wrath. According to Scripture, without the cross, there is no salvation, no forgiveness, and no hope; because of the cross, there is eternal life. The mission and message of Jesus surround the cross. “For the word of the cross is to those who are perishing foolishness, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God” (1 Cor 1:18).\n\nJesus loves the Church and He gave His life to redeem the Church. Community exists for Mission! Christians are to bring the gospel \"together\" to the culture. \"The church is called to \"do\" the work of Christ, to be the means of his \"action\" in and for the world...Mission, in its widest as well as its more focused senses, is what the church is there for. God intends to put the world to rights; he has dramatically launched this project through Jesus. Those who belong to Jesus are called, here and now, in the power of the Spirit, to be agents of that putting-to-rights purpose.\"\n\nGeorge Peters notes, “If man is to be reached, he must be reached within his own culture.” This principle is observed when God became a man in the form of Jesus to come to earth and incarnate the gospel. As missionaries sent by Jesus, every Christian must learn to exegete their surrounding culture, uncovering the language, values, and ideas of the culture. Using this information, they take steps to reach people with the gospel message in the context of the surrounding culture.\n\nThe kingdom was central to Jesus’ message and mission. The Book of Acts ends with Paul, under house arrest in Rome, “proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance” (Acts 28:31). Christians are sent to proclaim the gospel of the kingdom so that others may enter the kingdom.\nGeorge Hunsberger conveys the idea that the Church is pointing beyond itself to the kingdom of God. The Church is not an end in itself; God has a mission that goes beyond the Church which includes the kingdom. The kingdom and the Church must never be divorced, yet they also must never be equated. In a similar way, “the reign must never be separated from the One who reigns.” The kingdom is always at the heart of the King.\n\nThe missional church movement first arose during the end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century. The movement seeks to rethink and redefine the nature of the church and create a new paradigm in which churches are seen as missional in nature, instead of attractional in nature. Leaders in the movement argue that instead of churches attempting to attract people to churches through church programs, churches should instead take the gospel outside of the church and engage society with the gospel, often by being involved not only in missions and evangelism but also in social justice movements. The missional church defines itself in terms of its mission — being \"sent ones\" who take the gospel to and incarnate the gospel within a specific cultural context. The church exists, in other words, for what we sometimes call \"mission\": to announce to the world that Jesus is its Lord.\n\"Mission is not just a program of the church. It defines the church as God’s sent people. Either we are defined by mission, or we reduce the scope of the gospel and the mandate of the church. Thus our challenge today is to move from church with mission to missional church.\"\n\nThe Church has a mission because Jesus has a mission. There is one mission.\n\n\"Missional church is a community of God’s people that defines itself, and organizes its life around, its real purpose of being an agent of God’s mission to the world. In other words, the church’s true and authentic organizing principle is mission. When the church is in mission, it is the true church. The church itself is not only a product of that mission but is obligated and destined to extend it by whatever means possible. The mission of God flows directly through every believer and every community of faith that adheres to Jesus. To obstruct this is to block God’s purposes in and through his people.\"\nMissional living is a term that is used in contrast with historical institutional churches. Church leaders as well as Christians in general have often regarded the Church as an institution to which outsiders must come in order to receive a certain product, namely, the gospel and all its associated benefits. Institutional churches are sometimes perceived to exist for the members and depend on pastors and staff to evangelize the lost. The \"missional church\", on the other hand, attempts to take Christ to \"the lost\" and its members are personally engaged in reaching their communities with the message of Jesus Christ.\n\n\nTheological and Philosophical Background\nPractical Implications\n\n"}
{"id": "37234316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37234316", "title": "Moral conversion", "text": "Moral conversion\n\nIn philosophy, moral conversion is an existential change in the person, who is perceived as the moral agent adopting new moral standards (or mores) in a process of internal transformation. Moral conversion is a relatively rare event in a person's normal development. It involves a decision that is both conscious and existentialist (i.e. based on critical questioning). Moral conversion is based on the internalist view of morality.\n\nThe process of moral conversion was described by Lawrence Kohlberg of the University of Chicago, who developed the so-called Lawrence Kohlberg's stages of moral development. Six classes of moral conversion were identified, based on progressively higher and higher levels of moral reasoning, beginning with the \"preconventional\" level of a child, and concluding with the \"postconventional\" (or autonomous) level of an adult aware of ethical principles guiding universally moral behaviour.\n\nNotably, the notion of moral conversion has been distinguished from the theory of moral development \"per se\", by Walter E. Conn (of Villanova University) and John C. Gibbs (of the Ohio State University). Moral conversion, according to Conn and Gibbs, involves critical questioning and therefore differs from any spontaneous moral development (Kohlberg). It results in the setting forth of the \"self-chosen values\" (Conn), which bring the existential dimension to the transforming process.\n\nAlfredo J. Mac Laughlin of St. Ambrose University defines moral conversion by the frequent occurrence of the \" conversions\" resulting from the presence of free will, which differ from the natural/spontaneous development taking place in incremental stages (Kohlberg). The most significant aspect of moral conversion is the withdrawal from the moral convictions of the past, which is based on \"critical self-appropriation\" or the \"critical\" discovery of oneself. It depends on the sense of authenticity beyond the possibility of predictions.\n\nBernard Lonergan explains that moral conversion is not moral perfection. It is the \"withdrawal from self-enclosure\" or the shift from personal satisfaction criterion to values that transcend oneself (or one's own group interests). Moral conversion, according to Lonergan, is one of three different types of conversion along with the \"intellectual\" and the \"religious\" conversion. From a causal point of view, it is the difference between varying levels of consciousness leading to a higher sense of responsibility for the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29107838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29107838", "title": "Mortality forecasting", "text": "Mortality forecasting\n\nMortality forecasting refers to the art and science of determining likely future mortality rates. It is especially important in rich countries with a high proportion of aged people, since aged populations are expensive in terms of pensions (both public and private). It is a major topic in Ageing studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "57969764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57969764", "title": "Mortality in the early modern age", "text": "Mortality in the early modern age\n\nThe early modern age saw various economic changes as well as several significant diseases that have affected the mortality rates. Data collection during this time was not consistent or broadly recorded and there have been efforts to reconstruct plausible statistics. Mortality rates vary on geographic location, social environment, and cultural values. There were also gender differences in the mortality rates, leading to an excess mortality rate in urban areas and in the female population. A main cause of death was stillbirth, which could be attributed to, but not limited to, maternal infections, birth complications, and congenital anomalies. Another contributing factor to the mortality rate was food insecurity and shortages as well as unemployment, both of which varied per region. A final factor was violence, which occurred mainly due to structural or systemic violence; however, violence since the 12th century has been steadily falling.\n\nData from the early modern age was not accurately or consistently collected. However, there have been a number of studies and reconstructed statistics from this era, particularly on children and women. There has not been any empirical research published and the only information has been theoretical as there has been insufficient data and sources. It was also common for many statistics to go unreported; this is especially true regarding unmarried women. Models and theoretic equations need to take into account \"social, economic, cultural, geographical, and even climatological variables\" in order to accurately reflect the statistics of the time.\n\nOne study, the Eurasia Project, has shown that boys, especially those under one year, had a higher mortality rate during childhood than girls, but the mortality rate for men and women were about equal. It has also been shown that there is a higher male mortality than female mortality rate during the time of famine. Male mortality has also been linked to \"economic modernization and urbanization ... especially for cardiovascular disease\".\n\nWomen faced increased mortality during childbirth as pregnancy and childbirth compromised the mother's immune system, with the most common causes of death being puerperal fever, toxemia, and hemorrhage. These dangers suggest an association to the excess female mortality, especially considering that women had to compete more for resources as they had no property rights and had a lower ranking in the household hierarchy. The average age of childbearing differed between Asia and Europe with an average difference of five years, which would affect cross-cultural data collection. Children born to mothers 35 years or older had a higher risk of mortality than children born to younger mothers. linking a mother's health and a child's survival.\n\nFemale infants and children often had a higher mortality rate, especially in times of food insecurity, compared to male infants and children. However, a maternal presence worked as a protective factor for children. regardless of age or gender.\n\nFood insecurity and shortages were common throughout this time period and were matched with the high food prices and high unemployment rate. This is shown through the differences in mortality rates between the lower and upper class, with poor infants being up to two times more likely to die than their wealthier counterparts. In 17th century Europe, it was common that at least one in five children from the same family would die before the age of one. Because of this high rate, it was common for there to be a large amount of children in one family so that there would be a higher rate of survival. Especially among poorer families, having multiple children was common in order to ensure there would be children to contribute to the family later on.\n\nDuring the early modern era, house calls were common. If the patient was female, the doctor, commonly an upper class male, would typically be summoned by a male family member who wound remain throughout the examination. The physician and male family member would then discuss the diagnosis and treatment plan without the female's input. This practice reinforced and perpetuated social hierarchies and patriarchal values.\n\nFood shortages and insecurity were leading concerns in the 18th century, especially in Europe, and these were exacerbated by reduced harvests yields. Disease was another leading cause of death, with rats and fleas being the common carriers of disease, specifically plagues, during this era.\n\nThe Black Death was a plague that affected much of the world, originating in Asia and spreading to Europe through diseased fleas and rats. This epidemic has been reported to have been the cause of death for approximately \"60% of the European population\".\n\nDuring the end of the 19th century, there was a plague, known as the Modern Plague, that started in China and spread to different cities through ports, reportedly causing roughly ten million deaths. This plague affected Asia, the Americas, and Africa and lasted into the 20th century. There were also epidemics that occurred locally and did not spread to national levels, notably in 18th century England. These local epidemics included fevers, dysentery, smallpox, starvation, typhoid fever, under-nutrition, cholera, malaria.\n\nBy the end of the era, disease and malnutrition were no longer the main leading causes of death.\n"}
{"id": "933503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=933503", "title": "Nanobe", "text": "Nanobe\n\nA nanobe is a tiny filamental structure first found in some rocks and sediments. Some scientists hypothesize that nanobes are the smallest form of life, 1/10 the size of the smallest known bacteria.\n\nNo conclusive evidence exists that these structures are, or are not, living organisms, so their classification is controversial.\n\nThe 1996 discovery of nanobes was published in 1998 by Philippa Uwins \"et al.\", from the University of Queensland, Australia. They were found growing from rock samples (both full-diameter and sidewall cores) of Jurassic and Triassic sandstones, originally retrieved from an unspecified number of oil exploration wells off Australia's west coast. Depths of retrieval were between and below the sea bed. While Uwins \"et al.\" present assertions against it, they do not exclude the possibility that the nanobes are from a surface contaminant, not from the rock units cited.\n\nThe smallest are just 20 nanometers in diameter. Some researchers believe that these structures are crystal growths, but the staining of these structures with dyes that bind to DNA might indicate that they are living organisms. They are similar to the structures found in ALH84001, a Mars meteorite found in the Antarctic. \nNanobes are similar in size to nanobacteria, which are also structures that have been proposed to be extremely small living organisms. However, these two should not be confused. Nanobacteria are thought to be cellular organisms, while nanobes are hypothesized to be a previously unknown form of life or protocells.\n\n\nA review in \"Microbes and Environments\" of the various ultra-small forms of proposed life states that the main criticism of nanobes is that they appear too small to contain the biochemical machinery needed to sustain life. The review also states that there is no evidence that nanobes are organisms in themselves and not fragments of larger organisms.\n\nTony Taylor was one of the authors of the original nanobe paper. He argues that the conspicuous lack of phosphorus in the X-ray spectroscopy data and the failure to find DNA using various DNA amplification techniques demonstrates that nanobes do not have any DNA or RNA. He also argues that they may have a completely different mechanism for heredity, which would account for many of their unusual chemical and physical properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23003393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23003393", "title": "Negligible senescence", "text": "Negligible senescence\n\nNegligible senescence is a term coined by biogerontologist Caleb Finch to denote organisms that do not exhibit evidence of senescence (biological aging), such as measurable reductions in their reproductive capability, measurable functional decline, or rising death rates with age.\n\nThere are many examples of species for whose organisms scientists have not detected an increase in mortality rate after maturity. This may mean that the lifespan of the organism is so long that researchers' subjects have not yet lived up to the time when a measure of the species' longevity can be made. Turtles, for example, were once thought to lack senescence, but more extensive observations have found evidence of decreasing fitness with age.\n\nStudy of negligibly senescent animals may provide clues that lead to better understanding of the aging process and influence theories of aging. The phenomenon of negligible senescence in some animals is a traditional argument for attempting to achieve similar negligible senescence in humans by technological means.\n\nThere are also organisms that exhibit negative senescence, whereby mortality chronologically decreases as the organism ages, for all or part of the life cycle, in disagreement with the Gompertz–Makeham law of mortality (see also Late-life mortality deceleration). Furthermore, there are species that have been observed to regress to a larval state and regrow into adults multiple times, such as \"Turritopsis dohrnii\".\n\nRecent studies have indicated a connection between phenomena related to negligible senescence and the general stability of an organism's genome, specifically transcription processes, over its lifetime.\n\nSome fish, such as some varieties of sturgeon and rougheye rockfish, and some tortoises and turtles are thought to be negligibly senescent, although recent research on turtles has uncovered evidence of senescence in the wild. The age of a captured fish specimen can be measured by examining growth patterns similar to tree rings on the otoliths (parts of motion-sensing organs).\n\nIn plants, aspen trees are one example of biological immortality. Each individual tree can live for 40–150 years above ground, but the root system of the clonal colony is long-lived. In some cases, this is for thousands of years, sending up new trunks as the older trunks die off above ground. One such colony in Utah, given the nickname of \"Pando\", is estimated to be 80,000 years old, making it possibly the oldest living colony of aspens.\n\nThe world's oldest known living non-clonal organism was the Methuselah tree of the species \"Pinus longaeva\" growing high in the White Mountains of Inyo County in eastern California, aged years.\nThis record was superseded in 2012 by another Great Basin bristlecone pine located in the same region as Methuselah, and was estimated to be 5062 years old. The tree was sampled by Edmund Schulman and dated by Tom Harlan.\n\nAmong bacteria, individual organisms are vulnerable and can easily die, but on the level of the colony, bacteria can live indefinitely. The two daughter bacteria resulting from cell division of a parent bacterium can be regarded as unique individuals or as members of a biologically “immortal” colony. The two daughter cells can be regarded as “rejuvenated” copies of the parent cell because damaged macromolecules have been split between the two cells and diluted. See asexual reproduction.\n\nSome examples of maximum observed life span of animals thought to be negligibly senescent are:\nSome rare organisms, such as tardigrades, usually have short lifespans, but are able to survive for thousands of years — and, perhaps, indefinitely — if they enter into the state of cryptobiosis, whereby their metabolism is reversibly suspended. It is hypothesized by advocates of cryonics that the human central nervous system can be similarly put into a state of suspended animation shortly before brain death to be revived at a future point in the technological development of humankind when such operation would be possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "32398910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32398910", "title": "Paratomy", "text": "Paratomy\n\nParatomy is a form of asexual reproduction in animals where the organism splits in a plane perpendicular to the antero-posterior axis and the split is preceded by the \"pregeneration\" of the anterior structures in the posterior portion.The developing organisms have their body axis aligned i.e. they develop in a head to tail fashion.\n\nBudding can be considered to be similar to paratomy except that the body axes need not be aligned: the new head may grow toward the side or even point backward (e.g. \"Convolutriloba retrogemma\" an acoel flat worm). In animals that undergo fast paratomy a chain of zooids packed in a head to tail formation may develop. Many oligochete annelids, acoelous turbellarians, echinoderm larvae and coelenterates reproduce by this method.\n\n\nThis paper has a detailed description of the changes during paratomy.\n"}
{"id": "35803963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35803963", "title": "Phaedon", "text": "Phaedon\n\nPhaedon (), published in 1767, is a book by the Jewish Enlightenment philosopher Moses Mendelssohn, in which Mendelssohn offers a defense of immortality.\n\n\"Phaedon\" is a defense of the simplicity and immortality of the soul. It is a series of three dialogues, revisiting the Platonic dialogue Phaedo, in which Socrates argues for the immortality of the soul, in preparation for his own death. Many philosophers, including Plotinus, Descartes, and Leibniz, argue that the soul is simple, and that because simples cannot decompose they must be immortal. In the \"Phaedon\", Mendelssohn addresses gaps in earlier versions of this argument (an argument that Kant calls \"the Achilles of Rationalist Psychology\"). The Phaedon contains an original argument for the simplicity of the soul, and also an original argument that simples cannot suddenly disappear. It contains further original arguments that the soul must retain its rational capacities as long as it exists.\n\nMaterialistic views were at the time rampant and fashionable, and faith in immortality was at a low ebb. At this favourable juncture appeared Phädon oder über die Unsterblichkeit der Seele (Phaedo or On the Immortality of Souls; 1767). Modelled on Plato's dialogue of the same name, Mendelssohn's work possessed some of the charm of its Greek exemplar and impressed the German world with its beauty and lucidity of style. The Phaedon was an immediate success, and besides being one of the most widely read books of its time in German it was speedily translated into several European languages, including English. The author was hailed as the \"German Plato,\" or the \"German Socrates\"; royal and other aristocratic friends showered attentions on him, and it was said that \"no stranger who came to Berlin failed to pay his personal respects to the German Socrates.\"\n\nImmanuel Kant criticized Mendelssohn's argument for immortality in the second edition of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" (1787), at B413–15. Commentators disagree over whether Kant's criticism is successful. Mendelssohn's arguments have been largely overlooked by contemporary analytic philosophers, but philosophers including Bertrand Russell and E.J. Lowe have offered arguments for the simplicity of the soul.\n\n"}
{"id": "49122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49122", "title": "Phoenix (mythology)", "text": "Phoenix (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, a phoenix (; , \"phoînix\") is a long-lived bird that cyclically regenerates or is otherwise born again. \n\nAssociated with the Sun, a phoenix obtains new life by arising from the ashes of its predecessor. According to some sources, the phoenix dies in a show of flames and combustion, although there are other sources that claim that the legendary bird dies and simply decomposes before being born again. There are different traditions concerning the lifespan of the phoenix, but by most accounts the phoenix lived for 500 years before rebirth. Herodotus, Lucan, Pliny the Elder, Pope Clement I, Lactantius, Ovid, and Isidore of Seville are among those who have contributed to the retelling and transmission of the phoenix motif.\n\nIn the historical record, the phoenix \"could symbolize renewal in general as well as the sun, time, the Empire, metempsychosis, consecration, resurrection, life in the heavenly Paradise, Christ, Mary, virginity, the exceptional man, and certain aspects of Christian life\".\n\nThe modern English noun \"phoenix\" derives from Middle English \"phenix\" (before 1150), itself from Old English \"fēnix\" (around 750). Old English \"fēnix\" was borrowed from Medieval Latin \"phenix\", which is derived from Classical Latin \"phoenīx\". The Classical Latin \"phoenīx\" represents Greek φοῖνιξ \"phoinīx\".\n\nIn ancient Greece and Rome, the bird, phoenix, was sometimes associated with the similar-sounding Phoenicia, a civilization famous for its production of purple dye from conch shells. A late antique etymology offered by the 6th- and 7th-century CE archbishop Isidore of Seville accordingly derives the name of the phoenix from its allegedly purple-red hue. Because the costly purple dye from Phoenicia was associated with the upper classes in antiquity and, later, with royalty, in the medieval period the phoenix was considered \"the royal bird\".\n\nIn spite of these folk etymologies, with the deciphering of the Linear B script in the 20th century, the original Greek φοῖνιξ was decisively shown to be derived from Mycenaean Greek \"po-ni-ke\", itself open to a variety of interpretations.\n\nClassical discourse on the subject of the phoenix points to a potential origin of the phoenix in Ancient Egypt. In the 19th century scholastic suspicions appeared to be confirmed by the discovery that Egyptians in Heliopolis had venerated the Bennu, a solar bird observed in some respects to be similar to the Greek phoenix. However, the Egyptian sources regarding the bennu are often problematic and open to a variety of interpretations. Some of these sources may have actually been influenced by Greek notions of the phoenix, rather than the other way around.\n\nHerodotus, writing in the 5th century BC, gives a somewhat skeptical account of the phoenix:\n\nThe phoenix is sometimes pictured in ancient and medieval literature and medieval art as endowed with a nimbus, which emphasizes the bird's connection with the Sun. In the oldest images of phoenixes on record these nimbuses often have seven rays, like Helios (the sun Titan of Greek mythology). Pliny the Elder also describes the bird as having a crest of feathers on its head, and Ezekiel the Dramatist compared it to a rooster.\n\nAlthough the phoenix was generally believed to be colorful and vibrant, sources provide no clear consensus about its coloration. Tacitus says that its color made it stand out from all other birds. Some said that the bird had peacock-like coloring, and Herodotus's claim of the Phoenix being red and yellow is popular in many versions of the story on record. Ezekiel the Dramatist declared that the phoenix had red legs and striking yellow eyes, but Lactantius said that its eyes were blue like sapphires and that its legs were covered in yellow-gold scales with rose-colored talons.\n\nHerodotus, Pliny, Solinus, and Philostratus describe the phoenix as similar in size to an eagle, but Lactantius and Ezekiel the Dramatist both claim that the phoenix was larger, with Lactantius declaring that it was even larger than an ostrich.\n\nDante refers to the phoenix in \"Inferno\" Canto XXIV:\nIn the play \"Henry VIII\" by William Shakespeare and John Fletcher, the King says in , in flattering reference to his young daughter Elizabeth (who was to become Queen Elizabeth I):\n\nScholars have observed analogues to the phoenix in a variety of cultures. These analogues include the Hindu garuda and gandaberunda, the Russian firebird, the Persian Simorgh, Georgian paskunji, the Arabian Anka عنقاء, and from that, the Turkish Zümrüdü Anka, the Tibetan Me byi karmo, the Chinese fenghuang and zhu que, and the Japanese hō-ō.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55864593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55864593", "title": "Pirjo Aalto", "text": "Pirjo Aalto\n\nPirjo Aalto (born 19 February 1961) is a Finnish biathlete. She competed in women's sprint event at the 1994 Winter Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "3117750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3117750", "title": "Rational egoism", "text": "Rational egoism\n\nRational egoism (also called rational selfishness) is the principle that an action is rational if and only if it maximizes one's self-interest. The view is a normative form of egoism. It is distinct from psychological egoism (according to which people are \"motivated\" only to act in their own self-interest) and ethical egoism (that moral agents \"ought\" only to do what is in their own self-interest).\n\nRational egoism was embodied by Russian author Nikolay Chernyshevsky in the 1863 book \"What Is to Be Done?\". Chernyshevsky's standpoint was ultimately socialistic, and was criticised by Fyodor Dostoyevsky in the 1864 book \"Notes from Underground\".\n\nEnglish philosopher Henry Sidgwick discussed rational egoism in his book \"The Methods of Ethics\", first published in 1872. A method of ethics is \"any rational procedure by which we determine what individual human beings 'ought' – or what it is 'right' for them – to do, or seek to realize by voluntary action\". Sidgwick considers three such procedures, namely, rational egoism, dogmatic intuitionism, and utilitarianism. Rational egoism is the view that, if rational, \"an agent regards quantity of consequent pleasure and pain to himself alone important in choosing between alternatives of action; and seeks always the greatest attainable surplus of pleasure over pain\".\n\nSidgwick found it difficult to find any persuasive reason for preferring rational egoism over utilitarianism. Although utilitarianism can be provided with a rational basis and reconciled with the morality of common sense, rational egoism appears to be an equally plausible doctrine regarding what we have most reason to do. Thus we must \"admit an ultimate and fundamental contradiction in our apparent intuitions of what is Reasonable in conduct; and from this admission it would seem to follow that the apparently intuitive operation of Practical Reason, manifested in these contradictory judgments, is after all illusory\".\n\nThe author and philosopher Ayn Rand also discusses a theory that she called 'rational egoism'. She holds that it is both irrational and immoral to act against one's self-interest. Thus, her view is a conjunction of both rational egoism (in the standard sense) and ethical egoism, because according to Objectivist philosophy, egoism cannot be properly justified without an epistemology based on reason:\n\nHer book \"The Virtue of Selfishness\" (1964) explains the concept of rational egoism in depth. According to Rand, a rational man holds his own life as his highest value, rationality as his highest virtue, and his happiness as the final purpose of his life.\n\nConversely, Rand was sharply critical of the ethical doctrine of altruism:\n\nTwo objections to rational egoism are given by the English philosopher Derek Parfit, who discusses the theory at length in \"Reasons and Persons\" (1984). First, from the rational egoist point of view, it is rational to contribute to a pension scheme now, even though this is detrimental to one's present interests (which are to spend the money now). But it seems equally reasonable to maximize one's interests now, given that one's reasons are not only relative to him, but to him as he is now (and not his future self, who is argued to be a \"different\" person). Parfit also argues that since the connections between the present mental state and the mental state of one's future self may decrease, it is not plausible to claim that one should be indifferent between one's present and future self.\n\nThe \"selfish gene\" model of evolution suggests that human (and animal) behaviors that seem altruistic are actually selfish, if viewed from the perspective of genes/phenotypes. People help each other \"selflessly\" because copies of their own genes also exist in others, so behaviors that help the genes survive are selected for, with the altruistic drive decreasing with genetic distance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27364349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27364349", "title": "Rolf M. Aagaard", "text": "Rolf M. Aagaard\n\nRolf Magdal Aagaard (born 27 March 1945) is a Norwegian photographer.\n\nHe was born in Risør. He worked for one year for \"Tiden\" and seven years for \"Fædrelandsvennen\" before being hired by \"Aftenposten\" in 1970. He was awarded the Narvesen Prize in 1979. He has also held exhibitions, and he has written books.\n"}
{"id": "54799459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54799459", "title": "Rolling and wheeled creatures in fiction and legend", "text": "Rolling and wheeled creatures in fiction and legend\n\nLegends and speculative fiction reveal a longstanding human fascination with rolling and wheeled creatures. Such creatures appear in mythologies from Europe, Japan, pre-Columbian Mexico, the United States, and Australia, and in numerous modern works.\n\nThe hoop snake, a creature of legend in the United States and Australia, is said to grasp its tail in its mouth and roll like a wheel towards its prey. Japanese culture includes a similar mythical creature, the \"Tsuchinoko\".\n\nBuer, a demon mentioned in the 16th-century grimoire \"Pseudomonarchia Daemonum\", was described in Collin de Plancy's 1825 edition of \"Dictionnaire Infernal\" as having \"the shape of a star or wheel\". The 1863 edition of this book featured an illustration by Louis Le Breton, depicting a creature with five legs radially arranged.\n\nNeil R. Jones' 1937 story \"On the Planet Fragment\" featured aliens dubbed the Disci, which were shaped like wheels with limbs around the circumference. One of their methods of locomotion was a \"rolling motion like that of a cartwheel.\"\n\nThe 1944 science fiction short story \"Arena\", by Fredric Brown, features a telepathic alien called an Outsider, which is roughly spherical and moves by rolling. The story was the basis for a 1967 \"\" episode of the same name, and possibly also a 1964 episode of \"The Outer Limits\" entitled \"Fun and Games\", though neither television treatment included a spherical creature.\n\nThe Dutch graphic artist M. C. Escher invented a creature that was capable of rolling itself forward, which he named \"Pedalternorotandomovens centroculatus articulosus\". He illustrated this creature in his 1951 lithograph (also known by the English title \"Curl-up\").\n\nA 1956 Scrooge McDuck comic, \"Land Beneath the Ground!\", by Carl Barks, introduced Terries and Fermies (a play on the phrase \"terra firma\"), creatures who move from place to place by rolling. The Terries and Fermies have made a sport of their rolling abilities, causing earthquakes in the process.\n\nNorthern Irish author James White's Sector General series features \"Rollers\" from the planet Drambo, doughnut-shaped aquatic organisms that do not have hearts, but which instead must roll continuously to maintain circulation by means of gravity. The Rollers are described in the short story \"Spacebird\" in the 1980 edition of \"Ambulance Ship\", and in other works in the series.\n\nIn \"The Citadel of Chaos\" (1983) by Steve Jackson, the reader may encounter Wheelies, disc-shaped creatures with four arms who move by doing cartwheels.\n\n\"Tuf Voyaging\", a 1986 science fiction novel by George R. R. Martin, features an alien called a Rolleram, described as a \"berserk living cannonball of enormous size\", which kills its prey by rolling over it and crushing it, before digesting it externally. Adults of the species weigh approximately six metric tons and can roll faster than .\n\nIn the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" video game series, which first appeared in 1991, the eponymous Sonic and his sidekick Tails move by rolling.\n\nThe 1995 short story \"Microbe\", by Kenyon College biologist and feminist science fiction writer Joan Slonczewski, describes an exploratory expedition to an alien world whose plant and animal life consists entirely of doughnut-shaped organisms.\n\nToy animals with wheels dating from the Pre-Columbian era were uncovered by archaeologists in Veracruz, Mexico in the 1940s. The indigenous peoples of this region did not use wheels for transportation prior to the arrival of Europeans.\n\nL. Frank Baum's 1907 children's novel \"Ozma of Oz\" features humanoid creatures with wheels instead of hands and feet, called Wheelers. Their wheels are composed of keratin, which has been suggested by biologists as a means of avoiding nutrient and waste transfer problems with living wheels. Despite moving quickly on open terrain, the Wheelers are stymied by obstacles in their path that do not hinder creatures with limbs. They also make an appearance in the 1985 film \"Return to Oz\", based partly on \"Ozma of Oz\".\n\nThe 1968 novel \"The Goblin Reservation\" by Clifford D. Simak features an intelligent alien race that uses biological wheels.\n\n\"Chorlton and the Wheelies\", a British stop-motion-animated television series that aired from 1976 to 1979, was set in \"Wheelie World\", which was inhabited by three-wheeled creatures called \"wheelies\".\n\nPiers Anthony's 1977 book \"Cluster\" and its sequels feature aliens called Polarians, which locomote by gripping and balancing atop a large ball. The ball is a living, though temporarily separable, portion of the Polarian's body.\n\nDavid Brin's \"Uplift\" Universe includes a wheeled species called the g'Kek, which are described in some detail in the 1995 novel \"Brightness Reef\". In 1996's \"Infinity's Shore\", a g'Kek is described as looking like \"a squid in a wheelchair.\" The g'Kek suffer from arthritic axles in their old age, particularly when living in a high gravity environment.\n\nA 1997 novel in the \"Animorphs\" series, \"The Andalite Chronicles\", includes an alien called a Mortron, composed of two separate entities: a yellow and black bottom half with four wheels, and a red, elongated head with razor-sharp teeth and concealed wings.\n\nThe 2000 novel \"The Amber Spyglass\", by English author Philip Pullman, features an alien race known as the Mulefa, which have diamond-shaped bodies with one leg at the front and back and one on each side. The Mulefa use large, disk-shaped seed pods as wheels. They mount the pods on bone axles on their front and back legs, while propelling themselves with their side legs. The Mulefa have a symbiotic relationship with the seed pod trees, which depend on the rolling action to crack open the pods and allow the seeds to disperse.\n\nIn the 2000 novel \"Wheelers\", by English mathematician Ian Stewart and reproductive biologist Jack Cohen, a Jovian species called \"blimps\" has developed the ability to biologically produce machines called \"wheelers\", which use wheels for locomotion.\n\nThe children's television series \"Jungle Junction\", which premiered in 2009, features hybrid jungle animals with wheels rather than legs; one such animal, Ellyvan, is a hybrid of an elephant and a van. These animals traverse their habitat on elevated highways.\n"}
{"id": "40446205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40446205", "title": "Saara Aalto", "text": "Saara Aalto\n\nSaara Sofia Aalto (born 2 May 1987) is a Finnish singer, songwriter, and voice actress. She came second in the first season of \"The Voice of Finland\" in 2012. Aalto competed in the Finnish national selection to represent Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest two times, first in 2011 with \"Blessed with Love\" and then in 2016 with \"No Fear\", both times placing second. On 7 November 2017, it was announced that she had been internally selected by broadcaster Yle to represent Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2018 in Lisbon. The Finnish public chose the song \"Monsters\". She qualified for the grand final and finished in 25th place.\n\nShe has taken part in musicals on stage and has done a great number of dubbings for feature films and foreign television series. Saara Aalto is the voice of Princess Anna in the Finnish version of Disney's animated movie \"Frozen\". She has dueted with Adam Lambert, and had concerts together with Andrea Bocelli, José Carreras and pianist Robert Wells. She has released 5 albums on her own record label Yume Records.\n\nIn 2016, Aalto came runner-up in the thirteenth series of \"The X Factor UK\", which gained her international recognition. Every fourth Finn watched \"The X Factor\" final. Aalto was the most-Googled person in Finland in 2016. Tabloid newspaper \"Iltalehti\" readers voted Saara Aalto as Finnish person of the year 2016. Following the show, she was signed to both Sony Music UK and Finland. In June 2017, Aalto announced via social media that she will be a judge on season two of \"X Factor Suomi\". Four months later, Aalto announced she had left Sony Music for Warner Music Group, citing that her previous deal did not feel like the \"right team\".\n\nBorn in Oulunsalo, Finland, Aalto grew up in a musical family and received piano lessons from pianist and pedagogue Olga Maslak, born in Odessa, Ukraine. Saara wrote her first song at the age of five. Her close relatives include painter and documentary director Eeli Aalto and magician Simo Aalto. In 1998 at age 11, she won the Kotka Maritime Festival song contest for children with one of her own compositions. Aalto also won the Charlotte Church international singing competition, organised in US, in 2003 with her own composition. Aalto represented Finland in the Golden Stag International Song Contest in Romania in 2004. She went to the Madetoja secondary school for music, where she graduated in 2005. After graduation she moved to Helsinki to study music at the Sibelius Academy, and at the same time also studied singing in the Helsinki Pop & Jazz Conservatory.\n\nIn the past few years Saara has been a sought after performer in concerts, galas, TV-shows and musicals. She has worked with several top orchestras and military bands and toured across Finland with her own band. However, becoming an international singer, and singing in English, has always been Aalto's dream, and that is why she auditioned for \"The X Factor UK\".\n\nSinging in many languages has been Aalto's passion since childhood and she has performed to many international groups visiting Finland. One popular example is \"Let it go\" in 15 languages that she made for one group of 20 different nationalities. Aalto can sing in many languages, but she has studied English, Swedish, French, Japanese and Chinese.\n\nIn 2007, she participated in \"Talent Suomi\" (\"Talent Finland\"), finishing in the top three.\n\nIn addition to her singing career, Saara is also an accomplished actress, having starred as Dorothy and Phannee in the Finnish production of \"Wicked - The Musical\" and as Mary Magdalene in \"Jesus Christ Superstar\". From 2008 to 2011 she appeared in the Helsinki City Theatre musicals, first as Kelsi in \"High School Musical on Stage!\" and its , and then in \"Wicked\".\n\nSaara Aalto took part on two separate occasions in the selection process in a bid to represent Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest. She participated in the qualifying rounds in Finland for Eurovision 2011 with her self-penned song \"\", placing second to Paradise Oskar who went on to represent Finland with his song \"Da Da Dam\". She received 40.7% of the public televotes, compared to 46.7% for Oskar. Aalto's recording was released as a single by Yume Records, a self-release record label she founded together with Teemu Roivainen in 2011.\n\nHer second bid to represent Finland was for Eurovision Song Contest 2016 through the competition \"Uuden Musiikin Kilpailu\" where she sang another of her own compositions titled \"No Fear\", again placing second. Although winning the public vote, she was disadvantaged with the judging vote going to the eventual winner Sandhja who went on to represent Finland with the song \"Sing It Away\".\n\nIn an interview Aalto described her music.\n\nI call my music Epic Love Pop! I love dramatic and emotional music with a show feeling. I also want to bring love, joy and encouragement for everybody; be yourself and inspire others! I’ve studied piano since I was a little kid and through music schools, singing competitions, my career and concerts (in Finland and all over the world) I’ve gotten lots of experience and confidence to be who I am as an artist. (...) I’ve performed in musicals and big shows in Finland. (...) I’m happy to be versatile performer.\n\nSaara Aalto represented Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2018. The decision was made by the Finnish national broadcaster Yle. Her song was selected among three choices in a national final; the selected song was \"Monsters\". She qualified for the final on 8th May but finished second last (25th) on 12th May.\n\nFollowing her performance of \"Blessed with Love\" for qualification in Eurovision 2011, that December she was involved in the Santa Claus Season's Greetings Song Contest, where she sang \"Ai De Zhu Fu,\" a Chinese (Mandarin) version of her Eurovision song \"Blessed with Love\". \n\nIn November 2012 Aalto was guest vocalist at Robert Wells's highly successful show \"Rhapsody in Rock\" at Shanghai Daning theatre. And following a successful performance in Shanghai in May 2013, opening for Spanish tenor José Carreras and singing several songs in Chinese, Saara Aalto returned to the city to duet with tenor Han Peng at the Closing Ceremony of the Shanghai International Film Festival in June 2013 broadcast to over 800 million viewers in 10 countries.\n\nFinding great reception from Chinese audiences, in July 2013 Aalto went on to release a full album destined for Mainland China and other Chinese markets also titled \"Ai De Zhu Fu\". On the album she performed nine of the album's 13 tracks in Mandarin language.\n\nAalto participated in season one of \"The Voice of Finland\". In the blind auditions, broadcast on 6 February 2012 on the Finnish commercial television channel Nelonen, she performed \"Taking Chances\" from Celine Dion with all four coaches, Elastinen, Lauri Tähkä, Paula Koivuniemi and Michael Monroe turning their chairs. She opted to be part of Team Monroe.\n\nIn the Battle Round on 17 February, she was confronted with team competitor Anna Inginmaa, both singing \"True Colors\". Coach Monroe opted for Aalto to go to the next round. In the live show on 23 March, she sang \"Barracuda\" and was saved by Monroe after failing to get enough votes from the public. She followed it up with the French language \"Je suis malade\" from Serge Lama and was safe after the public vote. In the semifinals with her rendition of \"Over the Rainbow\", she qualified for the finals held on 20 April where she sang \"I'm Gonna Be Strong\" from Frankie Laine and an original song titled \"My Love\". She placed second to winner Mikko Sipola.\n\nAalto auditioned for the thirteenth UK series of \"The X Factor\" in 2016, singing a cover of Sia's \"Chandelier\", which earned her three yeses from the attending judges. At the bootcamp, she performed \"On the Radio\" by Donna Summer and was sent through as part of the over-25s category with Sharon Osbourne as her mentor. At the six-chair challenge, she performed \"I See Fire\" by Ed Sheeran and was sent home by Osbourne who stated a lack of connection. However, after the crowd chanted to bring her back, Aalto was given a chance to perform Serge Lama's \"Je suis malade\", which caused the crowd to turn on her, while Nicole Scherzinger criticized her song choice, stating \"we ain't in France\". Osbourne then asked Aalto to leave. \n\nAalto was brought back as Scherzinger's wildcard pick for the over-25s category and therefore went to judges' houses. She was chosen to proceed to the live shows after performing ABBA's \"The Winner Takes It All\". In week 1 of the live shows, Aalto finished in the bottom three after performing \"Let It Go\" and faced a sing-off against the duo Bratavio, where she performed \"Alive\" by Sia. Aalto was saved with only Louis Walsh voting to eliminate her, though praising her performance. The following week, she sang \"River Deep – Mountain High\" and finished again in the bottom three, performing \"Run\" by Snow Patrol in a sing-off against Freddy Parker. The result went to deadlock and Aalto was saved as she had the greater public vote. In week 3 she performed \"It's Oh So Quiet\" coming 2nd in the public vote, and in week 4 Aalto sang \"Bad Romance\", placing 3rd in the public vote. In week 5, Aalto finished in the bottom three for the third time after her rendition of \"Sound of the Underground\", but was saved by majority vote after performing \"Who You Are\" in a sing-off against the group Four of Diamonds. Her following performances were \"No More Tears (Enough Is Enough)\" in week 6 placing 2nd and \"My Heart Will Go On\" in week 7 again placing 2nd. In week 8, she sang \"The Winner Takes It All\" and a medley of \"Diamonds Are Forever\" and \"Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend\", topping the public vote for the first time. Following the eliminations of Relley C in week 3 and Honey G in week 8, Aalto became Osbourne's last remaining act in the competition.\n\nIn the semifinals on 3 December, she sang a medley of \"White Christmas\" and \"All I Want for Christmas Is You\", and \"Chandelier\" as 2nd song, topping the vote again reaching the Final 3, where on 10 December she performed \"Everybody Wants to Rule the World\" and \"Bohemian Rhapsody\", the latter as a duet with Adam Lambert, again topping the public vote. With the elimination of the group 5 After Midnight she was in the Final 2 facing Matt Terry. In the Final on 11 December, she performed \"It's Oh So Quiet\" and \"I Didn't Know My Own Strength\". In the ensuing public vote, she placed as the runner-up to eventual winner Matt Terry with 40.4% of the votes.\n\nIn her press-conference on 20 December 2016, Aalto revealed that she works with the joint effort of ROAR Global and Global career management companies, and that she has signed a five-album recording deal with Sony Music UK and Sony Music Finland. In October 2017, Aalto announced she had left Sony Music for Warner Music Group. In a statement, she said: \"I was honoured I was signed to Sony. But later I felt like they weren't the right team. When I met the people at Warner they were very excited about my style and making me into this big theatrical artist.\" On 7 November 2017, it was announced that Aalto would represent Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2018 in Lisbon, Portugal. The three bidding entries will be released by Yle and Saara Aalto, along with an accompanying music video, on 9, 16 and 23 February 2018, respectively. Aalto was a judge on the second series of the Finnish version of \"The X Factor\", mentoring the girls. Aalto could not attend the finale night of \"The X Factor Finland\" due to her commitments with The Eurovision, so Matt Terry represented her instead, but her category's last girl, Tika Liljegren, was crowned the winner, making Aalto the winning mentor. Aalto announced in March 2018 via social media that her first album under Warner Music Group, \"Wild Wild Wonderland\", would be released on 27 April 2018.\n\nAalto had a nine-year relationship with singer , but the couple broke up in 2013. Aalto and Roivainen continued collaborating in music. Aalto later began a relationship with a female fan, personal trainer and life coach, Meri Sopanen. They became engaged on their two-year anniversary in August 2016. Aalto now identifies as a lesbian.\n\nAalto and Sopanen moved to London in January 2017. The idea to audition for \"The X Factor\" came from Sopanen.\n\n"}
{"id": "37362851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37362851", "title": "Self-fulfillment", "text": "Self-fulfillment\n\nIn philosophy and psychology, self-fulfillment is the realizing of one's deepest desires and capacities. The history of this concept can be traced to Ancient Greek philosophers and it still remains a notable concept in modern philosophy.\n\nPhilosopher Alan Gewirth in his book \"Self-Fulfillment\" defined self-fulfillment as \"carrying to fruition one's deepest desires or one's worthiest capacities.\" Another definition states that self-fulfillment is \"the attainment of a satisfying and worthwhile life well lived.\" It is an ideal that can be traced to Ancient Greek philosophers, and one that has been common and popular in both Western and non-Western cultures. Self-fulfillment is often seen as superior to other values and goals.\n\nGewirth notes that \"to seek for a good human life is to seek for self-fulfillment\". However, in modern philosophy, the ideal of self-fulfillment has become less popular, criticized by thinkers such as Hobbes and Freud, who feel there are conceptual and moral problems associated with it. It has been called an egoistic concept, impossible to achieve, with some suggesting that it is an obsolete concept that should be abandoned. Moral philosophers focus less on obtaining a good life, and more on interpersonal relations and duties owed to others. Similarly, whereas Plato and Aristotle saw the goal of the polis in providing a means of self-fulfillment to citizens, modern governments have given up on that, focusing rather on maintaining civic order. Despite the criticism, the concept of self-fulfillment still persists in modern philosophy, its usefulness defended by thinkers such as Gewirth himself.\n\nGewirth noted that the term self-fulfillment has two near synonyms: self-realization and self-actualization, used respectively by philosophers and humanist psychologists, whereas the term self-fulfillment is more commonly used outside those expert fields. Gewirth however argues that this concept is sufficiently different from those others to merit not being used as a synonym. Self-actualization in particular, often discussed in the context of Maslow's hierarchy of needs, is frequently defined as the \"need for self-fulfillment\".\n\nDr. Ben Carvosso in his book \"Life CEO - Take Charge, and start doing your life's work, not your busy work\" discussed the prevalence of individuals who's lives are busy, full but unfulfilled. Individuals who's lives are unfulfilled because something is missing and who come to the mistaken conclusion (driven by cleaver marketing by big corporations) that the solution is work harder and make more money to somehow make more time. Self-fulfillment comes from knowing what you really want, not what society says you should want. Its only when we connect with what we really want that we experience true joy or Eudaimonia.\n\nSelf-fulfillment has been positively connected to altruism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56139077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56139077", "title": "Sentientism", "text": "Sentientism\n\nSentientism is an ethical philosophy that grants degrees of moral consideration to all sentient beings. Sentientism extends humanism by showing compassion for non-human animals as well as potential artificial and alien intelligences. In common with humanism, sentientism rejects supernatural beliefs in favour of critical, evidence-based thinking.\n\nSentientism proposes that sentience, the ability to experience suffering or flourishing, should determine whether we grant moral consideration to an entity. Non-sentient entities do not warrant direct moral consideration because they can not experience the implications of our decisions.\n\nSentientist thinking has a long history, from Jeremy Bentham's An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation through to contemporary philosophers such as Richard D. Ryder and Peter Singer.\n\nSentientism differs from Speciesism in that it uses degrees of sentience, rather than species boundaries, to grant degrees of moral consideration.\n\nSentientism differs from painism in that it acknowledges the full range of experience, not just that of pain, in warranting moral consideration. \n\nSentientism agrees with Animalism that humans are animals so both warrant moral consideration. However, sentientism argues that non-animal sentient beings, such as potential artificial or alien intelligences, would also warrant moral consideration. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16796699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16796699", "title": "Shunamitism", "text": "Shunamitism\n\nShunamitism is the practice of an old man sleeping with, but not necessarily having sex with, a young virgin to preserve his youth. The rationale was that the heat and moisture of the young woman would transfer to the old man and revitalize him.\n\nThe term is based on the Biblical story of King David and Abishag, a young woman from Shunem. When King David was old and could not stay warm, his servants found Abishag to sleep with him, though he had no intimate relations with her: therefore, she was still a virgin.\n\nAmong scientific physicians, both Thomas Sydenham (17th century) and Herman Boerhaave (18th century) prescribed shunamitism for their patients.\n\nRejuvenation (aging)\n"}
{"id": "31869754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31869754", "title": "Tetraspore", "text": "Tetraspore\n\nTetraspores are red algae spores produced by the tetrasporophytic (diploid) phase in the life history of algae in the Rhodophyta as a result of meiosis. The name is derived from the 4 spores that form after this meiosis, the division is of three kinds: cruciate, zonate and tetrahedral. \n"}
{"id": "32845879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32845879", "title": "Thanatosensitivity", "text": "Thanatosensitivity\n\nThanatosensitivity describes an epistemological-methodological approach into technological research and design that actively seeks to integrate the facts of mortality, dying, and death into traditional user-centered design. First coined by Michael Massimi and Andrea Charise from the University of Toronto in a joint paper presented at CHI 2009, \"thanatosensitivity\" refers to a humanistically grounded approach to human–computer interaction (HCI) research and design that recognizes and engages with the conceptual and practical issues surrounding death in the creation of interactive systems.\n\nThe term thanatosensitive is derived from the ancient Greek mythological personification of death, Thanatos (Greek: Θάνατος (Thánatos), \"Death\"), which is itself a term associated with the notion of the death drive common to 20th-century post-Freudian thought. This inter- or multi-disciplinarity is crucial to thanatosensitive investigation because, unlike many areas of HCI research, studies of death and mortality are rarely amenable to laboratory study or traditional fieldwork approaches. As Massimi and Charise argue, the critical humanist aspect of thanatosensitivity effectively offers \"a non-invasive strategy for better understanding the conceptual and practical issues surrounding death, computing, and human experience\".\n\nHistorically, design and research in the computer sciences has rarely considered the issues pursuant to the death of the user. However, Lindley et al. note, \"[s]hifts in the field of HCI (Human-Computer Interaction) coupled with the growing maturity of interactive technologies is leading researchers and designers to consider issues relating to mortality.\" The proliferation of digitally mediated (and often password-protected) personal data and online identities, as well as biometrical practices, \"routinely assume a living body for access\", which makes access to data following death increasingly problematic for individuals and relatives, as well as institutions and corporations, that may have claims to or stakes in such materials. A 2004 news story describes how Yahoo! denied the family of Justin Ellsworth, a deceased US marine, access to his email, preventing them from accessing information necessary for handling the aftermath of the account owner's death. Determining how digital information and artefacts \"can be bequeathed, inherited, and appropriately repurposed\" while accounting for the complexity of privacy concerns presents a new horizon of human-computer interaction research. \"At a fundamental level, such issues are becoming increasingly prominent as technology companies decide how to handle email accounts or webpages belonging to people who are now deceased.\" Recent scholarship in this area has called for the development of more purposive applications for facilitating the inheritance of digital materials.\n\nMoreover, the ways in which people use technology in practices concerning mortality, dying, and death are areas of HCI research that have historically received little attention. Although technological artefacts that address issues of the end of life are increasingly common (e.g. online memorials), academic research in this area is at an early stage. Such \"thanatechnologies\" seek to meet numerous needs, including memorialisation, bereavement support and communication, archiving, access to information and resources, and so on. While many thanatechnologies exist, relatively few are the product of a thanatosensitive design process; rather, they are appropriations of general purpose technologies. For example, forum management software is not explicitly concerned with the mortality of its users; however, online forums are a common place for the bereaved to communicate regarding loss in the form of formal and (more commonly) informal online memorials. Additionally, 3D virtual worlds are beginning to be explored as spaces for informal memorialization.\n\n"}
{"id": "7028169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7028169", "title": "Timo Aaltonen", "text": "Timo Aaltonen\n\nTimo Antero Aaltonen (born 11 April 1969 in Vehmaa, Southwest Finland) is a 189-cm tall Finnish shot putter who weighs 130 kg and competes for Turun Urheiluliitto, which is the same club that Paavo Nurmi ran for. He competed and won a gold medal at the 2000 European Indoor Athletics Championships with a qualifying put of 20.57 m and a final put of 20.62 m.\n\nAaltonen was the 13th member to be inducted into the 20 meter club after he putted the shot 20.12 m in a competition on 20 June 1998 in Kuortane, Finland.\n\n"}
{"id": "1878640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1878640", "title": "What the Dead Men Say", "text": "What the Dead Men Say\n\n\"What the Dead Men Say\" is a science fiction novella by American writer Philip K. Dick, first published in \"Worlds of Tomorrow\" magazine in June 1964. The manuscript, originally titled \"Man With a Broken Match\", was received by Dick's agent on 15 April 1963.\n\nDeath is followed by a period of 'half-life', a short amount of time which can be rationed out over long periods in which the dead can be revived—so that, potentially, they can 'live' on for a long time. When attempts to bring back important businessman Louis Sarapis fail, it's clearly more than mere negligence. Sure enough, Sarapis starts speaking from beyond the grave. From outer space, in fact. Yet no-one seems terribly bothered, other than those directly concerned in the plot mechanics. Eventually entire communications networks (phones, TV, radio) are blocked by Sarapis' broadcasts.\n\nThe concept of 'half-life' was used again and developed in Dick's 1969 novel \"Ubik\", which even re-uses a page of the novella verbatim.\n"}
{"id": "779111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=779111", "title": "Xenotransplantation", "text": "Xenotransplantation\n\nXenotransplantation (\"xenos-\" from the Greek meaning \"foreign\" or strange), or heterologous transplant is the transplantation of living cells, tissues or organs from one species to another. Such cells, tissues or organs are called xenografts or xenotransplants. It is contrasted with allotransplantation (from other individual of same species), syngeneic transplantation or isotransplantation (grafts transplanted between two genetically identical individuals of the same species) and autotransplantation (from one part of the body to another in the same person).\n\nXenotransplantation of human tumor cells into immunocompromised mice is a research technique frequently used in pre-clinical oncology research.\n\nHuman xenotransplantation offers a potential treatment for end-stage organ failure, a significant health problem in parts of the industrialized world. It also raises many novel medical, legal and ethical issues. A continuing concern is that many animals, such as pigs, have a shorter lifespan than humans, meaning that their tissues age at a quicker rate. Disease transmission (xenozoonosis) and permanent alteration to the genetic code of animals are also causes for concern. Similarly to objections to animal testing, animal rights activists have also objected to xenotransplantation on ethical grounds. A few temporarily successful cases of xenotransplantation are published.\n\nIt is common for patients and physicians to use the term \"allograft\" imprecisely to refer to either allograft (human-to-human) or xenograft (animal-to-human), but it is helpful scientifically (for those searching or reading the scientific literature) to maintain the more precise distinction in usage.\n\nThe first serious attempts at xenotransplantation (then called heterotransplantation) appeared in the scientific literature in 1905, when slices of rabbit kidney were transplanted into a child with renal insufficiency. In the first two decades of the 20th century, several subsequent efforts attempts to use organs from lambs, pigs and primates were published.\n\nScientific interest in xenotransplantation declined when the immunological basis of the organ rejection process was described. The next waves of studies on the topic came with the discovery of immunosuppressive drugs. Even more studies followed Dr. Joseph Murray's first successful renal transplantation in 1954 and scientists, facing the ethical questions of organ donation for the first time, accelerated their effort in looking for alternatives to human organs.\n\nIn 1963, doctors at Tulane University attempted chimpanzee-to-human renal transplantations in six people who were near death; after this and several subsequent unsuccessful attempts to use primates as organ donors and the development of a working cadaver organ procuring program, interest in xenotransplantation for kidney failure dissipated.\n\nAn American infant girl known as \"Baby Fae\" with hypoplastic left heart syndrome was the first infant recipient of a xenotransplantation, when she received a baboon heart in 1983. The procedure was performed by Leonard L. Bailey at Loma Linda University Medical Center in Loma Linda, California. Fae died 21 days later due to a humoral-based graft rejection thought to be caused mainly by an ABO blood type mismatch, considered unavoidable due to the rarity of type O baboons. The graft was meant to be temporary, but unfortunately a suitable allograft replacement could not be found in time. While the procedure itself did not advance the progress on xenotransplantation, it did shed a light on the insufficient amount of organs for infants. The story grew so big that it made such an impact that the crisis of infant organ shortage improved for that time. \n\nXenotransplantation of human tumor cells into immunocompromised mice is a research technique frequently used in oncology research. It is used to predict the sensitivity of the transplanted tumor to various cancer treatments; several companies offer this service, including the Jackson Laboratory.\n\nHuman organs have been transplanted into animals as a powerful research technique for studying human biology without harming human patients. This technique has also been proposed as an alternative source of human organs for future transplantation into human patients. For example, researchers from the Ganogen Research Institute transplanted human fetal kidneys into rats which demonstrated life supporting function and growth.\n\nA worldwide shortage of organs for clinical implantation causes about 20–35% of patients who need replacement organs to die on the waiting list. Certain procedures, some of which are being investigated in early clinical trials, aim to use cells or tissues from other species to treat life-threatening and debilitating illnesses such as cancer, diabetes, liver failure and Parkinson's disease. If vitrification can be perfected, it could allow for long-term storage of xenogenic cells, tissues and organs so that they would be more readily available for transplant.\n\nXenotransplants could save thousands of patients waiting for donated organs. The animal organ, probably from a pig or baboon could be genetically altered with human genes to trick a patient’s immune system into accepting it as a part of its own body. They have re-emerged because of the lack of organs available and the constant battle to keep immune systems from rejecting allotransplants. Xenotransplants are thus potentially a more effective alternative.\n\nXenotransplantation also is and has been a valuable tool used in research laboratories to study developmental biology.\n\nPatient derived tumor xenografts in animals can be used to test treatments.\n\nSince they are the closest relatives to humans, non-human primates were first considered as a potential organ source for xenotransplantation to humans. Chimpanzees were originally considered the best option since their organs are of similar size, and they have good blood type compatibility with humans, which makes them potential candidates for xenotransfusions. However, since chimpanzees are listed as an endangered species, other potential donors were sought. Baboons are more readily available, but impractical as potential donors. Problems include their smaller body size, the infrequency of blood group O (the universal donor), their long gestation period, and their typically small number of offspring. In addition, a major problem with the use of nonhuman primates is the increased risk of disease transmission, since they are so closely related to humans.\n\nPigs (\"Sus scrofa domesticus\") are currently thought to be the best candidates for organ donation. The risk of cross-species disease transmission is decreased because of their increased phylogenetic distance from humans. They are readily available, their organs are anatomically comparable in size, and new infectious agents are less likely since they have been in close contact with humans through domestication for many generations. Current experiments in xenotransplantation most often use pigs as the donor, and baboons as human models.\n\nIn the field of regenerative medicine, pancreatogenesis- or nephrogenesis-disabled pig embryos, unable to form a specific organ, allow experimentation toward the \"in vivo\" generation of functional organs from xenogenic pluripotent stem cells in large animals via compensation for an empty developmental niche (blastocyst complementation). Such experiments provide the basis for potential future application of blastocyst complementation to generate transplantable human organs from the patient's own cells, using livestock animals, to increase quality of life for those with end-stage organ failure.\n\nTo date no xenotransplantation trials have been entirely successful due to the many obstacles arising from the response of the recipient’s immune system. \"Xenozoonoses\" are one of the biggest threats to rejections, as they are xenogenetic infections. The introduction of these microorganisms are a big issue that lead ti the fatal infections and then rejection of the organs. This response, which is generally more extreme than in allotransplantations, ultimately results in rejection of the xenograft, and can in some cases result in the immediate death of the recipient. There are several types of rejection organ xenografts are faced with, these include: \n\nA rapid, violent, and hyperacute response comes as a result of antibodies present in the host organism. These antibodies are known as xenoreactive natural antibodies (XNAs).\n\nThis rapid and violent type of rejection occurs within minutes to hours from the time of the transplant. It is mediated by the binding of XNAs (xenoreactive natural antibodies) to the donor endothelium, causing activation of the human complement system, which results in endothelial damage, inflammation, thrombosis and necrosis of the transplant. XNAs are first produced and begin circulating in the blood in neonates, after colonization of the bowel by bacteria with galactose moieties on their cell walls. Most of these antibodies are the IgM class, but also include IgG, and IgA.\n\nThe epitope XNAs target is an α-linked galactose moiety, Gal-α-1,3Gal (also called the α-Gal epitope), produced by the enzyme α-galactosyl transferase. Most non-primates contain this enzyme thus, this epitope is present on the organ epithelium and is perceived as a foreign antigen by primates, which lack the galactosyl transferase enzyme. In pig to primate xenotransplantation, XNAs recognize porcine glycoproteins of the integrin family.\n\nThe binding of XNAs initiate complement activation through the classical complement pathway. Complement activation causes a cascade of events leading to: destruction of endothelial cells, platelet degranulation, inflammation, coagulation, fibrin deposition, and hemorrhage. The end result is thrombosis and necrosis of the xenograft.\n\nSince hyperacute rejection presents such a barrier to the success of xenografts, several strategies to overcome it are under investigation:\n\n\"Interruption of the complement cascade\" \n\n\"Transgenic organs (Genetically engineered pigs)\" \n\nAlso known as delayed xenoactive rejection, this type of rejection occurs in discordant xenografts within 2 to 3 days, if hyperacute rejection is prevented. The process is much more complex than hyperacute rejection and is currently not completely understood. Acute vascular rejection requires de novo protein synthesis and is driven by interactions between the graft endothelial cells and host antibodies, macrophages, and platelets. The response is characterized by an inflammatory infiltrate of mostly macrophages and natural killer cells (with small numbers of T cells), intravascular thrombosis, and fibrinoid necrosis of vessel walls.\n\nBinding of the previously mentioned XNAs to the donor endothelium leads to the activation of host macrophages as well as the endothelium itself. The endothelium activation is considered type II since gene induction and protein synthesis are involved. The binding of XNAs ultimately leads to the development of a procoagulant state, the secretion of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, as well as expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules such as E-selectin, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1).\n\nThis response is further perpetuated as normally binding between regulatory proteins and their ligands aid in the control of coagulation and inflammatory responses. However, due to molecular incompatibilities between the molecules of the donor species and recipient (such as porcine major histocompatibility complex molecules and human natural killer cells), this may not occur.\n\nDue to its complexity, the use of immunosuppressive drugs along with a wide array of approaches are necessary to prevent acute vascular rejection, and include: \n\nIf hyperacute and acute vascular rejection are avoided accommodation is possible, which is the survival of the xenograft despite the presence of circulating XNAs. The graft is given a break from humoral rejection when the complement cascade is interrupted, circulating antibodies are removed, or their function is changed, or there is a change in the expression of surface antigens on the graft. This allows the xenograft to up-regulate and express protective genes, which aid in resistance to injury, such as heme oxygenase-1 (an enzyme that catalyzes the degradation of heme).\n\nRejection of the xenograft in hyperactute and acute vascular rejection is due to the response of the humoral immune system, since the response is elicited by the XNAs. Cellular rejection is based on cellular immunity, and is mediated by: \n\nIn direct xenorecognition, antigen presenting cells from the xenograft present peptides to recipient CD4 T cells via xenogeneic MHC class II molecules, resulting in the production of interleukin 2 (IL-2). Indirect xenorecognition involves the presentation of antigens from the xenograft by recipient antigen presenting cells to CD4 T cells. Antigens of phagocytosed graft cells can also be presented by the host’s class I MHC molecules to CD8 T cells.\n\nThe strength of cellular rejection in xenografts remains uncertain, however it is expected to be stronger than in allografts due to differences in peptides among different animals. This leads to more antigens potentially recognized as foreign, thus eliciting a greater indirect xenogenic response.\n\nA proposed strategy to avoid cellular rejection is to induce donor non-responsiveness using hematopoietic chimerism. Donor stem cells are introduced into the bone marrow of the recipient, where they coexist with the recipient’s stem cells. The bone marrow stem cells give rise to cells of all hematopoietic lineages, through the process of hematopoiesis. Lymphoid progenitor cells are created by this process and move to the thymus where negative selection eliminates T cells found to be reactive to self. The existence of donor stem cells in the recipient’s bone marrow causes donor reactive T cells to be considered self and undergo apoptosis.\n\nChronic rejection is slow and progressive, and usually occurs in transplants that survive the initial rejection phases. Scientists are still unclear how chronic rejection exactly works, research in this area is difficult since xenografts rarely survive past the initial acute rejection phases. Nonetheless, it is known that XNAs and the complement system are not primarily involved. Fibrosis in the xenograft occurs as a result of immune reactions, cytokines (which stimulate fibroblasts), or healing (following cellular necrosis in acute rejection). Perhaps the major cause of chronic rejection is arteriosclerosis. Lymphocytes, which were previously activated by antigens in the vessel wall of the graft, activate macrophages to secrete smooth muscle growth factors. This results in a build up of smooth muscle cells on the vessel walls, causing the hardening and narrowing of vessels within the graft. Chronic rejection leads to pathologic changes of the organ, and is why transplants must be replaced after so many years. It is also anticipated that chronic rejection will be more aggressive in xenotransplants as opposed to allotransplants.\n\nSuccessful efforts have been made to create knockout mice without α1,3GT; the resulting reduction in the highly immunogenic αGal epitope has resulted in the reduction of the occurrence of hyperacute rejection, but has not eliminated other barriers to xenotransplantation such as dysregulated coagulation, also known as coagulopathy.\n\nDifferent organ xenotransplants result in different responses in clotting. For example, kidney transplants result in a higher degree of coagulopathy, or impaired clotting, than cardiac transplants, whereas liver xenografts result in severe thrombocytopenia, causing recipient death within a few days due to bleeding. An alternate clotting disorder, thrombosis, may be initiated by preexisting antibodies that affect the protein C anticoagulant system. Due to this effect, porcine donors must be extensively screened before transplantation. Studies have also shown that some porcine transplant cells are able to induce human tissue factor expression, thus stimulating platelet and monocyte aggregation around the xenotransplanted organ, causing severe clotting. Additionally, spontaneous platelet accumulation may be caused by contact with pig von Willebrand factor.\n\nJust as the α1,3G epitope is a major problem in xenotransplantation, so too is dysregulated coagulation a cause of concern. Transgenic pigs that can control for variable coagulant activity based on the specific organ transplanted would make xenotransplantation a more readily available solution for the 70,000 patients per year who do not receive a human donation of the organ or tissue they need.\n\nExtensive research is required to determine whether animal organs can replace the physiological functions of human organs. Many issues include:\n\n\nXenozoonosis, also known as zoonosis or xenosis, is the transmission of infectious agents between species via xenograft. Animal to human infection is normally rare, but has occurred in the past. An example of such is the avian influenza, when an influenza A virus was passed from birds to humans. Xenotransplantation may increase the chance of disease transmission for 3 reasons:\n\nExamples of viruses carried by pigs include porcine herpesvirus, rotavirus, parvovirus, and circovirus. Porcine herpesviruses and rotaviruses can be eliminated from the donor pool by screening, however others (such as parvovirus and circovirus) may contaminate food and footwear then re-infect the herd. Thus, pigs to be used as organ donors must be housed under strict regulations and screened regularly for microbes and pathogens. Unknown viruses, as well as those not harmful in the animal, may also pose risks. Of particular concern are PERVS (porcine endogenous retroviruses), vertically transmitted microbes that embed in swine genomes. The risks with xenosis are twofold, as not only could the individual become infected, but a novel infection could initiate an epidemic in the human population. Because of this risk, the FDA has suggested any recipients of xenotransplants shall be closely monitored for the remainder of their life, and quarantined if they show signs of xenosis.\n\nBaboons and pigs carry myriad transmittable agents that are harmless in their natural host, but extremely toxic and deadly in humans. HIV is an example of a disease believed to have jumped from monkeys to humans. Researchers also do not know if an outbreak of infectious diseases could occur and if they could contain the outbreak even though they have measures for control. Another obstacle facing xenotransplants is that of the body’s rejection of foreign objects by its immune system. These antigens (foreign objects) are often treated with powerful immunosuppressive drugs that could, in turn, make the patient vulnerable to other infections and actually aid the disease. This is the reason the organs would have to be altered to fit the patients' DNA (histocompatibility).\n\nIn 2005, the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) declared an eighteen-year moratorium on all animal-to-human transplantation, concluding that the risks of transmission of animal viruses to patients and the wider community had not been resolved.\nThis was repealed in 2009 after an NHMRC review stated \"... the risks, if appropriately regulated, are minimal and acceptable given the potential benefits.\", citing international developments on the management and regulation of xenotransplantation by the World Health Organisation and the European Medicines Agency.\n\nEndogenous retroviruses are remnants of ancient viral infections, found in the genomes of most, if not all, mammalian species. Integrated into the chromosomal DNA, they are vertically transferred through inheritance. Due to the many deletions and mutations they accumulate over time, they usually are not infectious in the host species, however the virus may become infectious in another species. PERVS were originally discovered as retrovirus particles released from cultured porcine kidney cells. Most breeds of swine harbor approximately 50 PERV genomes in their DNA. Although it is likely that most of these are defective, some may be able to produce infectious viruses so every proviral genome must be sequenced to identify which ones pose a threat. In addition, through complementation and genetic recombination, two defective PERV genomes could give rise to an infectious virus. There are three subgroups of infectious PERVs (PERV-A, PERV-B, and PERV-C). Experiments have shown that PERV-A and PERV-B can infect human cells in culture. To date no experimental xenotransplantations have demonstrated PERV transmission, yet this does not mean PERV infections in humans are impossible. Pig cells have been engineered to inactivate all 62 PERVs in the genome using CRISPR Cas9 genome editing technology, and eliminated infection from the pig to human cells in culture.\n\nXenografts have been a controversial procedure since they were first attempted. Many, including animal rights groups, strongly oppose killing animals to harvest their organs for human use. None of the major religions object to the use of genetically modified pig organs for life-saving transplantation. In general, the use of pig and cow tissue in humans has been met with little resistance, save some religious beliefs and a few philosophical objections. Experimentation without consent doctrines are now followed, which was not the case in the past, which may lead to new religious guidelines to further medical research on pronounced ecumenical guidelines. The \"Common Rule\" is the United States bio-ethics mandate .\n\nAutonomy and informed consent are important when considering the future uses of xenotransplantation. A patient undergoing xenotransplantation should be fully aware of the procedure and should have no outside force influencing their choice. The patient should understand the risks and benefits of such a transplantation. However, it has been suggested that friends and family members should also give consent, because the repercussions of transplantation are high, with the potential of diseases and viruses crossing over to humans from the transplantation. Close contacts are at risk for such infections. Monitoring of close relations may also be required to ensure that xenozoonosis is not occurring. The question then becomes: does the autonomy of the patient become limited based on the willingness or unwillingness of friends and family to give consent, and are the principles of confidentiality broken?\n\nThe safety of public health is a factor to be considered. If there is any risk to the public at all for an outbreak from transplantation there must be procedures in place to protect the public. Not only does the recipient of the transplantation have to understand the risks and benefits, but society must also understand and consent to such an agreement.\n\nThe Ethics Committee of the International Xenotransplantation Association points out one major ethical issue is the societal response to such a procedure. The assumption is that the recipient of the transplantation will be asked to undergo lifelong monitoring, which would deny the recipient the ability to terminate the monitoring at any time, which is in direct opposition of the Declaration of Helsinki and the US Code of Federal Regulations.\nIn 2007, xenotransplantation was banned under ethical grounds in all countries but Argentina, Russia and New Zealand. Since then, the practice has only been carried out to treatment for diabetes type 1 to serve as a substitute for penicillin injections. \n\nThe Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has also stated that if a transplantation takes place the recipient must undergo monitoring for the rest of that recipient's lifetime and waive their right to withdraw. The reason for requiring lifelong monitoring is due to the risk of acute infections that may occur. The FDA suggests that a passive screening program should be implemented and should extend for the life of the recipient.\n\n\n"}
