{"id": "225386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225386", "title": "1872 in sports", "text": "1872 in sports\n\n1872 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nCollege championship\nEvents\n\nInternational\n\nEngland\nScotland\n\nNational championship\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\nEngland\n\nMajor tournaments\n\nEngland\nAustralia\nCanada\nIreland\nUSA\n\nThe Boat Race\n\nEvents\n\n"}
{"id": "55721596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55721596", "title": "2017 Darwin Triple Crown", "text": "2017 Darwin Triple Crown\n\nThe 2017 CrownBet Darwin Triple Crown was an motor racing event for the Supercars Championship, held on the weekend of 16 to 18 June 2017. The event was held at Hidden Valley Raceway near Darwin in the Northern Territory and consisted of two races, 120 and 200 kilometres in length. It is the sixth event of fourteen in the 2017 Supercars Championship and hosted Races 11 and 12 of the season.\n\nTaz Douglas was replaced at Lucas Dumbrell Motorsport with Cameron McConville.\n\nThis was the third round in which Super2 Series wildcards were allowed to compete in the main class. Jack Le Brocq and Macauley Jones were the two drivers to step up for this round.\n"}
{"id": "1742971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1742971", "title": "Athletic training", "text": "Athletic training\n\nAthletic training has been recognized by the American Medical Association (AMA) as an allied health care profession since June 1991. \n\"Athletic training is practiced by athletic trainers, health care professionals who collaborate with physicians to optimize activity and participation of patients and clients. Athletic training encompasses the prevention, diagnosis, and intervention of emergency, acute and chronic medical conditions involving impairment, functional limitations and disabilities.\" \n\nThere are five domains of athletic training listed in the 7th edition (2015) of the Athletic Training Practice Analysis:\n\nAn athletic trainer functions as an integral member of the health care team in clinics, secondary schools, colleges and universities, professional sports programs, and other athletic health care settings.\n\nAthletic training in the United States began in October 1881 when Harvard University hired James Robinson to work conditioning their football team. At the time, the term \"athletic trainer\" meant one who worked with track and field athletes. Robinson had worked with track and field athletes and the name \"athletic trainer\" transferred to those working on conditioning these football players and later other athletes. Athletic trainers began to treat and rehabilitate injuries in order to keep the athletes participating. The first major text on athletic training and the care of athletic injuries was called Athletic Training (later changed to The Trainer's Bible) written in 1917 by Samuel E. Bilik. Early athletic trainers had \"no technical knowledge, their athletic training techniques usually consisted of a rub, the application of some type of counterirritant, and occasionally the prescription of various home remedies and poultices\". In 1918, Chuck Cramer started the Cramer Chemical Company (now Cramer Products) that produced a line of products used by athletic trainers and began publishing a newsletter in 1932 entitled The First Aider.\n\nAn organization named the National Athletic Trainers' Association (NATA) was founded in 1938 and folded in 1944. Another NATA was founded in 1950 and still exists. The first athletic training curriculum approved by NATA was in 1959 and the amount of athletic training programs began to grow throughout colleges and universities in the United States. In the early development of the major, athletic training was geared more towards prepping the student for teaching at the secondary level, emphasizing on health and physical education. This program was first introduced at an undergraduate level in 1969 to the schools of Mankato State University, Indiana State University, Lamar University, and the University of New Mexico.\n\nThrough the years athletic training has evolved to be defined as \"health care professionals who specialize in preventing, recognizing, managing, and rehabilitating injures\". During the 1970s the NATA Professional Education Committee formed a list of objectives to define athletic training as a major course of study and to eliminate it as a secondary-level teaching credential. By June 1982, there were nine NATA-approved graduate athletic training education programs. On July 1, 1986, this work was used to implement athletic training as a major course of study in at least 10 colleges and universities, and to only start the development of the major in a handful of others.\n\nOnce athletic training was recognized as an allied health profession the process of accrediting programs began. NATA's Professional Education Committee (PEC) was the first to take on this role of approving athletic training educational programs. The AMA's Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation (CAHEA) was given the responsibility in 1993 to develop requirements for the programs of entry-level athletic trainers. At this time all programs had to go through the CAHEA accreditation process. A year later CAHEA was broken up and replaced with the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP), which then lead the accreditation process. In 2003 JRC-AT, Joint Review Committee on Athletic Training completely took over the process and became an independent accrediting agency like all other allied health professions had. Three years later JRC-AT officially became the Committee for Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE), which is fully in charge of accrediting athletic training programs in the United States. NATA produced the NATABOC in 1969 in order to implement a certification process for the profession for an entry-level athletic trainer. In 1989, became an independent non-profit corporation and soon later changed its name to the Board of Certification (BOC).\n\nThe Board of Certification serves as the national certifying body for athletic trainers, and its Standards of Professional Practice outline the roles and responsibilities of certified athletic trainers. Such practice standards include practice expectations such as, \"The Athletic Trainer renders service or treatment under the direction of a physician.\" Regardless of the setting, limitations and restrictions on what an athletic trainer can do and who can be treated are in large part determined by the regulatory statutes governing professional practice in individual states.\n\n\"In certain situations, an individual may require treatment from or consultation with a variety of both medical and nonmedical services and personnel other than the athletic trainer.\" It is the athletic trainer's responsibility to understand the limits of their scope of practice and recognize situations where a referral is necessary. \"A number of support health services may be used including school health services, nurses, physicians, dentists, podiatrists, physician's assistants, physical therapists, strength and conditioning specialists, biomechanists, exercise physiologists, nutritionists, psychologists, massage therapists, occupational therapists, emergency medical technicians, paramedics, chiropractors, orthopedists, prosthesis, equipment personnel, referees, or social workers.\"\n\n\"The National Athletic Trainers’ Association Code of Ethics states the principles of ethical behavior that should be followed in the practice of athletic training. It is intended to establish and maintain high standards and professionalism for the athletic training profession.\"\n\n\nAll courses may have prerequisites to be completed before taking further coursework. Also, those prerequisites and content of the courses will vary upon the institute and professor. The courses listed below are commonly taken to increase knowledge regarding athletic training.\n\n\nThe Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE) website provides a list of all the accredited programs in the United States. It provides you with the name of the college, who to contact, and a link to the institution's website. An Undergraduate Athletic Training degree can only be received at an accredited school for athletic training.\n\nAlthough the majority of athletic trainers receive a bachelor's degree in athletic training before taking the Board of Certification Exam (BOC), it is not the only way to receive an education in athletic training. An entry-level masters program is a two-year program that covers the same material as an undergraduate athletic training degree. Common prerequisite classes are human anatomy, human physiology, kinesiology, biomechanics, exercise physiology, nutrition, and personal health along with a certain number of observation hours completed under the supervision of a certified athletic trainer (ATC). Prerequisites can vary by institution so be sure to research the prerequisites for your institutions of interest. There are 26 accredited entry level masters programs in the U.S.A. See below for a link to a list of these institutions.\n\nThere are approximately 15 accredited athletic training masters programs. These programs consist of students who are already certified athletic trainers that want to advance their academic and clinical experience. These are two-year programs which culminate with a Master of Science degree (M.S.) in athletic training.\nGraduate programs in athletic training are not always specifically in athletic training, but in a related field. Some of these fields may include, but are not limited to, kinesiology, biomechanics, sports management, sport and exercise psychology, exercise physiology, health promotion, etc. These programs are also two years in length. While enrolled in one of these programs, the athletic trainer may gain clinical experience and receive a stipend through a make some money by obtaining a graduate assistantship.\n\n\nA graduate assistant athletic trainer position is a position in which a graduate athletic training student is able to work as an assistant athletic trainer while taking graduate courses. Graduate assistant athletic trainers are responsible for providing the medical coverage of select teams at the institution where they are working. Responsibilities may vary, but include administering daily medical coverage for selected intercollegiate athletic teams (practice/event); traveling with the assigned team, evaluation and documentation of athletic injuries, administrative responsibilities, serve as Approved Clinical Instructor (ACI) or Clinical Instructor (CI) in a CAATE – accredited ATEP, and other duties as assigned by the head athletic trainer. Other responsibilities may include working at a high school, clinic, teaching, or doing research. Graduate assistant positions are generally about 10-month appointments that are renewable after the first year, and may include additional summer work. Visit the National Athletic Trainers’ Association Career Center for job postings.\n\nAthletic Training programs are evaluated by CAATE to ensure that they follow the standards for Entry-Level Athletic Training Programs. Evaluations may take place every three to seven years depending on the results of the last visit. Successfully completing the CAATE accredited education program is a part of the criteria that determines a candidate's eligibility for the Board of Certification (BOC) examination.\n\n\"The National Athletic Trainers’ Association (NATA) is the professional membership association for certified athletic trainers and others who support the athletic training profession. Founded in 1950, the NATA has grown to more than 35,000 members worldwide today. The majority of certified athletic trainers choose to be members of the NATA – to support their profession, and to receive a broad array of membership benefits. By joining forces as a group, NATA members can accomplish more for the athletic training profession than they can individually\".\n\nBefore the formation of NATA, athletic trainers occupied a somewhat insecure place in the athletic program. Since that time, as a direct result of the standards and ethics established by NATA, there has been considerable professional advancement. Every year NATA works on behalf of all athletic trainers to enhance health care for both athletic trainers and those who receive care.\nNATA is the professional organization for Athletic trainers across the nation. Each region of the USA has their own district under NATA but within their area, they have their own agendas and board members. Each district also has a director that serves on the NATA Board of Directors.\n\nThere are 10 districts.\n\nEvery state has their own state athletic training association that acts similar to the district associations as they have their own board members. The state associations answer to the district associations and the National Athletic Trainers’ Association. Links to the state associations can be found through the regional websites.\n\nDue to the physicality of athletics and the campaign for healthy well-being, there are issues that become hot topics in the media. Athletic trainers have to continually be aware of changes in laws, position statements of the National Athletic Trainers Association, and institutional policies.\n\nCurrent hot topics and topics to keep an eye on include:\n\n"}
{"id": "56221452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56221452", "title": "Belgium at the UCI Track Cycling World Championships", "text": "Belgium at the UCI Track Cycling World Championships\n\nBelgium competed at the 2015 UCI Track Cycling World Championships in Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines at the Vélodrome de Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines from 18–22 February 2015. A team of 10 cyclists (3 women, 7 men) was announced to represent the country in the event.\n\nBelgium competed at the 2016 UCI Track Cycling World Championships at the Lee Valley VeloPark in London, United Kingdom from 2–4 March 2016. A team of 6 cyclists (3 women, 3 men) was announced to represent the country in the event.\n"}
{"id": "46925725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46925725", "title": "Black armband protest", "text": "Black armband protest\n\nThe black armband protest was made by Zimbabwean cricketers Andy Flower and Henry Olonga during the 2003 Cricket World Cup. The pair decided to wear black armbands to \"mourn the death of democracy in Zimbabwe\". The protest received condemnation from senior Zimbabwean political figures, and also some senior Zimbabwean cricket figures, but was praised by the international media. The International Cricket Council deemed that Flower and Olonga had taken a political action, but refused to charge the pair with an offence. Their initial protest was during Zimbabwe's first match of the tournament in Harare, and the pair wore armbands to protest at all of the matches. As a result of the protest, Flower and Olonga were forced to leave Zimbabwe, and both men later settled in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe 2003 Cricket World Cup was awarded to South Africa, however they decided to award six of the group stage matches to Zimbabwe, and two to Kenya. Due to security concerns in Zimbabwe, the British and Australian governments both advised their players against travelling to Zimbabwe. In the end, England forfeited their match, whilst Australia played and won their match.\n\nThe idea of a protest was started when Andy Flower was taken by a friend, Nigel Huff, to see a farm impacted by the government's land reforms. In 2000, Robert Mugabe and the Zimbabwean government had begun a plan of land reforms for redistribution of 3,000 farms, and began compulsorily seizing land from white farmers, with forced evictions and arrests on the basis of \"illegally occupying their land\". By 2002, it was estimated that around 80% of the 4,500 farms that had been white-owned had been forcibly seized. Another related issue was human rights abuses and violence, particularly against political opponents in the leadup to the 2002 Zimbabwe presidential election. The EU had imposed sanctions on Zimbabwe's ruling elite, which, as of 2017, are still in place. Flower was particularly appalled by the torture of Zimbabwean MP Job Sikhala.\n\nAfter Flower had decided to protest, he decided that he wanted Olonga to partner him in the protest, as \"one white Zimbabwean and one black one operating together gave the message the most eloquent balance.\" Olonga was the first black, and the youngest ever, cricketer to play for Zimbabwe. They met up in a news café in Harare to plan the protest, originally considering withdrawing from the World Cup, but later deciding to protest instead. The pair spoke with lawyer David Coltart, a founding member of the Movement for Democratic Change. Coltart suggested wearing black armbands, and helped word the statement in a non-incriminating way.\n\nThe match in question was between Zimbabwe and Namibia on 10 March 2003. The match was being played at the Harare Sports Club, and was the first World Cup match hosted in Zimbabwe. Prior to the protest, the only other Zimbabwean player who knew about the protest was Andy's brother Grant. In the end, the pair did not have any black armbands, and so used black insulating tape instead. Shortly before the match, they delivered their 450-word statement to the press. The statement later became commonly known as \"mourning the death of democracy in Zimbabwe\":\nIn the match, Zimbabwe batted first, and the public at the ground were not aware of the protest until the 22nd over, when Flower came out to bat wearing a black armband. Olonga was also seen wearing a black armband on the Zimbabwe team balcony. The crowd of 4,000 at the ground were supportive of the protest, and a number of them made their own black armbands during the match. In the match itself, Flower scored 39, as Zimbabwe reached 340/2, and Olonga took 0/8 in 3 overs, as Zimbabwe won a rain-affected match by 86 runs (D/L method).\n\nAfter the match, one man was arrested for wearing a black armband. During Zimbabwe's next group stage match against India, nearly 200 spectators wore black armbands, to support the protest.\n\nInside Zimbabwe, the reaction was hostile to the players. Zimbabwe's Minister of Information, Jonathan Moyo, called Olonga an \"Uncle Tom\" who had \"a black skin and a white mask\". Zanu PF information secretary Nathan Shamuyarira claimed they were forced into it by the British media, and \"No true Zimbabwean would have joined in,\" but \"Olonga is not a Zimbabwean, he is a Zambian\". Olonga was charged with treason, an offence punishable by death. MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai released a statement in support of the protest. He was charged with treason, although the charge was later dropped. Givemore Makoni, the President of Takashinga Cricket Club where Olonga played said \"It is disgraceful what Henry Olonga and Andy Flower have done. Taking politics on to the playing field is a thing the International Cricket Council and all sports organisations have been trying to avoid,\" and that \"by taking politics on to the field and bringing the game into disrepute Henry appears to have breached Takashinga's code of conduct\". Olonga was immediately suspended and later sacked by Takashinga Cricket Club. Stephen Mandongo, the President of the Zimbabwe Cricket Union also condemned the protest, saying \"What Flower and Olonga did is very wrong. They have jeopardised our reputation when given this once in a lifetime chance to host the World Cup ... It would be wrong if they wore black armbands again.\" They referred the matter to the International Cricket Council, who deemed that they had taken a political action, but refused to charge them with a formal offence. Instead, they released a statement reiterating the apolitical nature of the organisation, and asked the players not to wear black armbands for the rest of the tournament, with the threat of more serious punishment if they continued to wear them.\n\nThe international reaction to the protest was favourable. The Times sports correspondent called it a \"powerful blow for sanity, decency and democracy\", whilst The Daily Telegraph's Donald Trelford praised the players and criticised the ICC and ECB, saying the players \"shine out like diamonds in a pile of mud\". Cricket writer Tim de Lisle praised the pair, saying that \"Together they were responsible for a shining moment in the game's history ... Two strips of black tape, more potent than any logo, breathed life back into the game's battered spirit.\" England captain Nasser Hussain said that Flower and Olonga \"have proved to be great men by what they have done.\" As a result of the protest, Olonga's girlfriend broke up with him, and he received numerous threatening emails and death threats.\n\nZimbabwe won their next match against England on a walkover, and also beat the Netherlands, and had a no-result in their final group match against Pakistan, which allowed them to qualify for the Super 6 stage of the competition. They were eliminated in this stage, however this allowed both players to leave Zimbabwe for South Africa.\n\nOlonga was dropped for 6 matches, with no reason given – some have speculated that he was dropped as a result of the protest, whilst other suggest it was due to poor form. Flower on the other hand was considered \"undroppable\". To comply with the ICC warning not to wear black armbands, during their next group match, Flower and twelfth-man Olonga both wore black wristbands, and in subsequent matches, Flower wore white armbands. Olonga's only subsequent appearance for Zimbabwe was in their match against Kenya.\n\nAfter their final Super Six match, Olonga immediately announced his retirement from international cricket, after 30 Test matches and 50 ODIs. Flower had already previously announced his retirement from international cricket, and had signed for Essex, and South Australia. Olonga, had not planned what to do after the protest, as he \"had in my own naivety thought that I could carry on in Zimbabwe – maybe my career would come to an end but I could still live there.\" In the end, he was kicked off the team bus, and travelled to Johannesburg, where he stayed for a month, before being granted a work permit to play for Lashings Cricket Club in England. He was subsequently granted asylum in the United Kingdom. Neither player has since returned to Zimbabwe.\n\nBoth players were awarded an Honorary Life Membership of the Marylebone Cricket Club, an honour usually only given to players who have retired from first-class cricket. In 2013, the BBC recorded a special radio programme commemorating 10 years of the protest.\n"}
{"id": "39120733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39120733", "title": "Boston Marathon bombing", "text": "Boston Marathon bombing\n\nDuring the annual Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013, two homemade pressure cooker bombs detonated 12 seconds and apart at 2:49 p.m., near the finish line of the race, killing three people and injuring several hundred others, including 16 who lost limbs.\n\nThree days later, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) released images of two suspects, who were later identified as Kyrgyz-American brothers Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and Tamerlan Tsarnaev. They killed an MIT policeman, kidnapped a man in his car, and had a shootout with the police in nearby Watertown, during which two officers were severely injured, one of whom died a year later. Tamerlan was shot several times, and his brother ran him over while escaping in the stolen car; Tamerlan died soon after.\n\nAn unprecedented manhunt for Dzhokhar ensued on April 19, with thousands of law enforcement officers searching a 20-block area of Watertown; residents of Watertown and surrounding communities were asked to stay indoors, and the transportation system and most businesses and public places closed. Around 6:00 p.m., a Watertown resident discovered Dzhokhar hiding in a boat in his backyard. He was shot and wounded by police before being taken into custody.\n\nDuring questioning, Dzhokhar said that he and his brother were motivated by extremist Islamist beliefs and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, that they were self-radicalized and unconnected to any outside terrorist groups, and that he was following his brother's lead. He said they learned to build explosive devices from an online magazine of the al-Qaeda affiliate in Yemen. He also said they had intended to travel to New York City to bomb Times Square. On April 8, 2015, he was convicted of 30 charges, including use of a weapon of mass destruction and malicious destruction of property resulting in death. Two months later, he was sentenced to death.\n\nThe 117th annual Boston Marathon was run on Patriots' Day, April 15, 2013. At , two bombs detonated about apart at the finish line on Boylston Street near Copley Square. The first exploded outside Marathon Sports at 671–673 Boylston Street at 2:49:43 p.m. At the time of the first explosion, the race clock at the finish line showed 04:09:43,the elapsed time since the Wave 3 start at 10:40 a.m. The second bomb exploded at 2:49:57 p.m., about 14 seconds later and one block farther west at 755 Boylston Street. The explosions took place nearly three hours after the winning runner crossed the finish line, but with more than 5,700 runners yet to finish.\n\nWindows on adjacent buildings were blown out but there was no structural damage. Runners continued to cross the line until 2:57 p.m.\n\nRescue workers and medical personnel, on hand as usual for the marathon, gave aid as additional police, fire, and medical units were dispatched, including from surrounding cities as well as private ambulances from all over the state. The explosions killed 3 civilians and injured an estimated 264 others, who were treated at 27 local hospitals. At least 14 people required amputations, with some suffering traumatic amputations as a direct result of the blasts.\n\nPolice, following emergency plans, diverted arriving runners to Boston Common and Kenmore Square. The nearby Lenox Hotel and other buildings were evacuated. Police closed a 15-block area around the blast site; this was reduced to a 12-block crime scene on April 16. Boston police commissioner Edward F. Davis recommended that people stay off the streets.\n\nDropped bags and packages, abandoned as their owners fled from the blasts, increased uncertainty as to the possible presence of more bombs. There were false reports of more bombs. An unrelated electrical fire at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library in nearby Dorchester was initially feared to be a bomb.\nThe airspace over Boston was restricted, and departures halted from Boston's Logan International Airport. Some local transit service was halted as well.\n\nThe Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency suggested people trying to contact those in the vicinity use text messaging instead of voice calls because of crowded cellphone lines. Cellphone service in Boston was congested but remained in operation, despite some local media reports stating that cell service was shut down to prevent cell phones from being used as detonators.\n\nThe American Red Cross helped concerned friends and family receive information about runners and casualties. The Boston Police Department also set up a helpline for people concerned about relatives or acquaintances to contact and a line for people to provide information. Google Person Finder activated their disaster service under \"Boston Marathon Explosions\" to log known information about missing people as a publicly viewable file.\n\nDue to the closure of several hotels near the blast zone, a number of visitors were left with nowhere to stay; many Boston-area residents opened their homes to them.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation led the investigation, assisted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Counterterrorism Center, and the Drug Enforcement Administration, and they named two official suspects. It was initially believed by some that North Korea was behind the attack after escalating tensions and threats with the U.S.\n\nUnited States government officials stated that there had been no intelligence reports suggesting such an attack. Representative Peter King, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, said: \"I received two top secret briefings last week on the current threat levels in the United States, and there was no evidence of this at all.\"\n\nThe father of the two suspects claimed that the FBI had been watching his family, and that they questioned his sons in Cambridge, Massachusetts five times in relation to possible explosions on the streets of Boston.\nEvidence found near the blast sites included bits of metal, nails, ball bearings, black nylon pieces from a backpack, remains of an electronic circuit board, and wiring. A pressure cooker lid was found on a nearby rooftop. Both of the improvised explosive devices were pressure cooker bombs manufactured by the bombers. Authorities confirmed that the brothers used bomb-making instructions found in Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula's \"Inspire\" magazine. After the suspects were identified, \"The Boston Globe\" reported that Tamerlan purchased fireworks from a fireworks store in New Hampshire.\n\nOn April 19, the FBI, West New York Police Department, and Hudson County Sheriff's Department seized computer equipment from the apartment of the Tsarnaevs' sister in West New York, New Jersey. On April 24, investigators reported that they had reconstructed the bombs, and believed that they had been triggered by remote controls used for toy cars.\n\nJeff Bauman was immediately adjacent to one of the bombs and lost both legs; he wrote while in the hospital: \"Bag, saw the guy, looked right at me\". He later gave a detailed description which enabled the photo to be identified and circulated quickly.\n\nAt 5:20 p.m. on April 18, the FBI released images of two suspects carrying backpacks, asking the public's help in identifying them. The FBI said that they were doing this in part to limit harm to people wrongly identified by news reports and on social-media.\nAs seen on video, the suspects stayed to observe the chaos after the explosions, then walked away casually. The public sent authorities a deluge of photographs and videos, which were scrutinized by both authorities and online public social networks.\n\nA few hours after the photos were released, the Tsarnaev brothers shot Sean A. Collier of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Police Department six times in an attempt to steal his gun, which they could not get out because of the holster's retention system. Collier, aged 27, was seated in his police car near the Stata Center (Building 32) on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus. He died soon after.\n\nThe brothers then carjacked a Mercedes-Benz M-Class SUV in the Allston-Brighton neighborhood of Boston. Tamerlan took the owner, Chinese national Dun \"Danny\" Meng (), hostage and told him that he was responsible for the Boston bombing and for killing a police officer. Dzhokhar followed them in the green Honda, later joining them in the Mercedes-Benz. Interrogation later revealed that the brothers \"decided spontaneously\" that they wanted to go to New York and bomb Times Square.\n\nThe Tsarnaev brothers forced Meng to use his ATM cards to obtain $800 in cash. They transferred objects to the Mercedes-Benz and one brother followed it in their Honda Civic, for which an all-points bulletin was issued. While the Tsarnaev brothers stopped at a Shell gas station, Meng escaped and ran across the street to the Mobil gas station, asking the clerk to call 911. His cell phone remained in the vehicle, allowing the police to focus their search on Watertown.\n\nShortly after midnight on April 19, Watertown police officer Joseph Reynolds identified the brothers in the Honda Civic and the stolen SUV. A gunfight followed between the brothers and police arriving at the scene on the 100 block of Laurel St. An estimated 200 to 300 rounds of ammunition were fired and at least one further bomb and several \"crude grenades\" were thrown.\n\nAccording to Watertown Police Chief Edward Deveau, the brothers had an \"arsenal of guns.\" Tamerlan ran out of ammunition and threw his empty pistol at Sergeant Jeffrey Pugliese, who tackled him with help from Sergeant John MacLellan. Tamerlan's younger brother Dzhokhar then drove the stolen SUV toward Tamerlan and police who unsuccessfully tried to drag Tamerlan out of his path; the car ran over Tamerlan and dragged him a short distance down the street. Dzhokhar abandoned the car half a mile away and fled on foot. Tamerlan Tsarnaev died at 1:35 a.m. at a Boston hospital.\n\nMassachusetts Bay Transportation Authority Police Officer Richard H. Donohue Jr. was also critically wounded but survived. Boston Police Department officer Dennis Simmonds was injured by a hand grenade and died April 10, 2014. Fifteen other officers were also injured. A later report by Harvard Kennedy School's Program on Crisis Leadership concluded that lack of coordination among police agencies had put the public at excessive risk during the shootout.\n\nOnly one firearm was recovered at the scene, a Ruger 9 mm pistol with a defaced serial number.\n\nRecords on the Honda left at the scene identified the men as two brothers whose family had immigrated to the United States seeking political asylum around 2002: 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev and 19-year-old Dzhokhar \"Jahar\" Tsarnaev. The FBI released additional photos of the two during the Watertown incident. Early on April 19, Watertown residents received automated calls asking them to stay indoors. That same morning Governor Patrick asked residents of Watertown and adjacent cities and towns to \"shelter in place\". Somerville residents also received automated calls instructing them to shelter in place.\n\nA 20-block area of Watertown was cordoned off and residents were told not to leave their homes or answer the door, as officers scoured the area in tactical gear. Helicopters circled the area and SWAT teams in armored vehicles moved through in formation, with officers going door to door. On the scene were the FBI, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Department of Homeland Security, the National Guard, the Boston and Watertown Police departments, and the Massachusetts State Police. The show of force was the first major field test of the interagency task forces created in the wake of the September 11 attacks.\n\nThe entire public transit network and most Boston taxi services were suspended, as was Amtrak service to and from Boston. Logan International Airport remained open under heightened security. Universities, schools, many businesses, and other facilities were closed as thousands of law enforcement personnel participated in the door-to-door manhunt in Watertown, as well as following up other leads, including at the house that the brothers shared in Cambridge, where seven improvised explosive devices were found\n\nThe brothers' father spoke from his home in Makhachkala, Dagestan, encouraging his son to: \"Give up. Give up. You have a bright future ahead of you. Come home to Russia.\" He continued, \"If they killed him, then all hell would break loose.\" On television, Dzhokhar's uncle from Montgomery Village, Maryland, pleaded with him to turn himself in.\n\nDavid Henneberry, a Watertown resident outside the search area, noticed that the tarp was loose on his parked boat on the evening of April 19, two hours after the shelter-in-place order had been lifted. He then saw a body lying inside the boat in a pool of blood. Authorities surrounded the boat and a police helicopter verified movement through a thermal imaging device. The figure inside the boat started poking at the tarp, and police shot at the boat.\n\nAccording to Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis and Watertown Police Chief Deveau, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was shooting at police from inside the boat, \"exchanging fire for an hour\". A subsequent report indicated that the firing lasted for a shorter time. The suspect was found to have no weapon when he was captured. He was arrested at 8:42 p.m. and taken to Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, where he was listed in critical condition with gunshot wounds to the head, neck, legs, and hand.\n\nInitial reports that the neck wound represented a suicide attempt were contradicted by his being unarmed. The situation was chaotic according to a police source quoted by the \"Washington Post\", and the firing of weapons occurred during \"the fog of war\". A subsequent review by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts provided this more specific summary: \"One officer fired his weapon without appropriate authority in response to perceived movement in the boat, and surrounding officers followed suit in a round of 'contagious fire', assuming they were being fired on by the suspect. Weapons continued to be fired for several seconds until on scene supervisors ordered a ceasefire and regained control of the scene. The unauthorized shots created another dangerous crossfire situation\".\n\nUnited States Senators Kelly Ayotte, Saxby Chambliss, Lindsey Graham, and John McCain, and Representative Peter T. King suggested that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a U.S. citizen, should be tried as an unlawful enemy combatant rather than as a criminal, potentially preventing him from obtaining legal counsel. Others said that doing so would be illegal, including prominent American legal scholar and lawyer Alan Dershowitz, and would jeopardize the prosecution. The government decided to try Dzhokhar in the federal criminal court system and not as an enemy combatant.\n\nDzhokhar was questioned for 16 hours by investigators but stopped communicating with them on the night of April 22 after Judge Marianne Bowler read him a Miranda warning. Dzhokhar had not previously been given a Miranda warning, as federal law enforcement officials invoked the warning's public safety exception. This raised doubts whether his statements during this investigation would be admissible as evidence and led to a debate surrounding Miranda rights.\n\nOn April 22, 2013, formal criminal charges were brought against Tsarnaev in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts during a bedside hearing while he was hospitalized. He was charged with use of a weapon of mass destruction and with malicious destruction of property resulting in death. Some of the charges carry potential sentences of life imprisonment or the death penalty. Tsarnaev was judged to be awake, mentally competent, and lucid, and he responded to most questions by nodding. The judge asked him whether he was able to afford an attorney and he said no; he was represented by the Federal Public Defender's office. On April 26, Dzhohkar Tsarnaev was moved from Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center to the Federal Medical Center at Fort Devens, about from Boston. FMC Devens is a federal prison medical facility at a former Army base where he was held in solitary confinement at a segregated housing unit with 23-hour-per-day lockdown.\n\nOn July 10, 2013, Tsarnaev pleaded not guilty to 30 charges in his first public court appearance, including a murder charge for MIT police officer Sean Collier. He was back in court for a status hearing on September 23, and his lawyers requested more time to prepare their defense. On October 2, Tsarnaev's attorneys asked the court to lift the special administrative measures (SAMs) imposed by Attorney General Holder in August, saying that the measures had left Tsarnaev unduly isolated from communication with his family and lawyers, and that no evidence suggested that he posed a future threat.\n\nJury selection began on January 5, 2015 and was completed on March 3, with a jury consisting of eight men and ten women (including six alternates). The trial began on March 4 with Assistant U.S. Attorney William Weinreb describing the bombing and painting Dzhokhar as \"a soldier in a holy war against Americans\" whose motive was \"reaching paradise\". He called the brothers equal participants.\n\nDefense attorney Judy Clarke admitted that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had placed the second bomb and was present at the murder of Sean Collier, the carjacking of Dun Meng, and the Watertown shootout, but she emphasized the influence that his older brother had on him, portraying him as a follower. Between March 4 and 30, prosecutors called more than 90 witnesses, including bombing survivors who described losing limbs in the attack, and the government rested its case on March 30. The defense rested as well on March 31, after calling four witnesses.\n\nTsarnaev was found guilty on all 30 counts on April 8. The sentencing phase of the trial began April 21,\nand a further verdict was reached on May 15 recommending that he be put to death. Tsarnaev was sentenced to death on June 24, after apologizing to the victims.\n\nAccording to FBI interrogators, Dzhokhar and his brother were motivated by Islamic beliefs but \"were not connected to any known terrorist groups\", instead learning to build explosive weapons from an online magazine published by al-Qaeda affiliates in Yemen. They further alleged that \"[Dzhokhar and] his brother considered suicide attacks and striking [the Boston Pops Fireworks Spectacular] on the Fourth of July; but ultimately decided to use pressure cooker bombs (capable of remote detonation) and other IEDs.\" Fox News reported that the brothers \"chose the prestigious race as a 'target of opportunity' ... [after] the building of the bombs came together more quickly than expected\".\n\nDzhokhar said that he and his brother wanted to defend Islam from the U.S., accusing the U.S. of conducting the Iraq War and War in Afghanistan against Muslims. A CBS report revealed that Dzhokhar had scrawled a note with a marker on the interior wall of the boat where he was hiding; the note stated that the bombings were \"retribution for U.S. military action in Afghanistan and Iraq\", and called the Boston victims \"collateral damage\", \"in the same way innocent victims have been collateral damage in U.S. wars around the world.\" Photographs of the note were later used in the trial.\n\nSome political science and public policy writers suggest that Islam may have played a secondary role in the attacks. These writers theorize that the primary motives might have been sympathy towards the political aspirations in the Caucasus region and Tamerlan's inability to become fully integrated into American society. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", a law enforcement official said that Dzhokhar \"did not seem as bothered about America's role in the Muslim world\" as his brother Tamerlan had been. Dzhokhar identified Tamerlan as the \"driving force\" behind the bombing, and said that his brother had only recently recruited him to help.\n\nSome journalists and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's defense attorney have suggested that the FBI may have recruited or attempted to recruit Tamerlan Tsarnaev as an informant.\n\nTamerlan Tsarnaev was born in 1986 in the Kalmyk Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, North Caucasus. Dzhokhar was born in 1993 in Kyrgyzstan, although some reports say that his family claims that he was born in Dagestan. The family spent time in Tokmok, Kyrgyzstan, and in Makhachkala, Dagestan.\nThey are half Chechen through their father Anzor, and half Avar through their mother Zubeidat. They never lived in Chechnya, yet the brothers identified themselves as Chechen.\n\nThe Tsarnaev family immigrated to the United States in 2002 where they applied for political asylum, settling in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Tamerlan Tsarnaev attended Bunker Hill Community College but dropped out to become a boxer. His goal was to gain a place on the U.S. Olympic boxing team, saying that, \"unless his native Chechnya becomes independent\", he would \"rather compete for the United States than for Russia\". He married U.S. citizen Katherine Russell on July 15, 2010 in the Masjid Al Quran Mosque in the Dorchester section of Boston; she was pregnant with their daughter. While initially quoted in a student magazine as saying, \"I don't have a single American friend. I don't understand them,\" a later FBI interview report documents Tamerlan stating it was a misquote, and that most of his friends were American. He had a history of violence, including an arrest in July 2009 for assaulting his girlfriend.\n\nThe brothers were Muslim; Tamerlan's aunt stated that he had recently become a devout Muslim. Tamerlan became more devout and religious after 2009, and a YouTube channel in his name linked to Salafist and Islamist videos. The FBI was informed by the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) in 2011 that he was a \"follower of radical Islam.\" In response, the FBI interviewed Tamerlan and his family and searched databases, but they did not find any evidence of \"terrorism activity, domestic or foreign.\" During the 2012 trip to Dagestan, Tamerlan was reportedly a frequent visitor at a mosque on Kotrova Street in Makhachkala, believed by the FSB to be linked with radical Islam. Some believe that \"they were motivated by their faith, apparently an anti-American, radical version of Islam\" acquired in the U.S., while others believe that the turn happened in Dagestan.\n\nAt the time of the bombing, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was a student at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth with a major in marine biology. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen on September 11, 2012. Tamerlan's boxing coach reported to NBC that the young brother was greatly affected by Tamerlan and admired him.\n\nTamerlan was previously connected to the triple homicide in Waltham, Massachusetts, on the evening of September 11, 2011, but he was not a suspect at the time. Brendan Mess, Erik Weissman, and Raphael Teken were murdered in Mess's apartment. All had their throats slit from ear to ear with such great force that they were nearly decapitated. The local district attorney said that it appeared that the killer and the victims knew each other, and that the murders were not random. Tamerlan Tsarnaev had previously described murder victim Brendan Mess as his \"best friend.\" After the bombing and subsequent revelations of Tsarnaev's personal life, the Waltham murders case was reexamined in April 2013 with Tsarnaev as a new suspect. Both ABC and \"The New York Times\" have reported that there is strong evidence which implicates Tsarnaev in this triple homicide.\n\nSome analysts claim that the Tsarnaev's mother Zubeidat Tsarnaeva is a radical extremist and supporter of jihad who influenced her sons' behavior. This prompted the Russian government to warn the U.S. government on two occasions about the family's behavior. Both Tamerlan and his mother were placed on a terrorism watch list about 18 months before the bombing took place.\n\nOn April 15, several people who were near the scene of the blast were taken into custody and questioned about the bombing, including a Saudi man whom police stopped as he was walking away from the explosion; they detained him when some of his responses made them uncomfortable. Law enforcement searched his residence in a Boston suburb, and the man was found to have no connection to the attack. An unnamed U.S. official said, \"he was just at the wrong place at the wrong time.\"\n\nOn the night of April 18, two men riding in a taxi in the vicinity of the shootout were arrested and released shortly thereafter when police determined that they were not involved in the Marathon attacks. Another man was arrested several blocks from the site of the shootout and was forced to strip naked by police who feared that he might have concealed explosives. He was released that evening after a brief investigation determined that he was an innocent bystander.\n\nOn May 22, the FBI interrogated Ibragim Todashev in Orlando, Florida, who was a Chechen from Boston. During the interrogation, he was shot and killed by an FBI agent who claimed that Todashev attacked him. \"The New York Times\" quoted an unnamed law enforcement official as saying that Todashev had confessed to a triple homicide and had implicated Tsarnaev, as well. Todashev's father claimed his son is innocent and that federal investigators are biased against Chechens and made up their case against him.\n\nRobel Phillipos (19) was a U.S. citizen of Ethiopian descent living in Cambridge who was arrested and faced with charges of knowingly making false statements to police. He graduated from high school in 2011 with Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.\nDias Kadyrbayev (19) and Azamat Tazhayakov (20) were natives of Kazakhstan living in the U.S. They were Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's roommates in an off-campus housing complex in New Bedford, Massachusetts at which Tsarnaev had sometimes stayed.\n\nPhillipos, Kadyrbayev, Tazhayakov, and Tsarnaev entered the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth in the fall of 2011 and knew each other well. After seeing photos of Tsarnaev on television, the three men traveled to his dorm room where they retrieved a backpack and laptop belonging to Tsarnaev. The backpack was discarded, but police recovered it and its contents in a nearby New Bedford landfill on April 26. During interviews, the men initially denied visiting the dorm room but later admitted their actions.\n\nKadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were arrested by police at the off-campus housing complex during the night of April 18–19. An unidentified girlfriend of one of the men was also arrested, but all three were soon released.\n\nKadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were re-arrested in New Bedford on April 20 and held on immigration-related violations. They appeared before a federal immigration judge on May 1 and were charged with overstaying their student visas. That same day, Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were charged criminally with:\n\nKadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were indicted by a federal grand jury on August 8, 2013 on charges of conspiracy to obstruct justice for helping Dzhokhar Tsarnaev dispose of a laptop computer, fireworks, and a backpack after the bombing. Each faced up to 25 years in prison and deportation if convicted. Tazhayakov was convicted of obstruction of justice and conspiracy on July 21, 2014.\n\nKadyrbayev pleaded guilty to obstruction charges on August 22, 2014, but sentencing was delayed pending the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in \"Yates v. United States\". Kadyrbayev was sentenced to six years in prison in June 2015.\n\nTazhayakov pleaded not guilty and went to trial, arguing that \"Kadyrbayev was the mastermind behind destroying the evidence and that Tazhayakov only 'attempted obstruction.'\" Jurors returned a guilty verdict against him, however, and he was sentenced to 42 months in prison in June 2015, which equated to three and a half years. Judge Douglas Woodlock gave a lighter sentence to Tazahayakov than to Kadyrbayev, who was viewed as more culpable. Tazhayakov was released in May 2016 and subsequently deported.\n\nPhillipos was arrested and faced charges of knowingly making false statements to police. He was released on $100,000 bail and placed under house confinement with an ankle monitor. He was convicted on October 28, 2014, on two charges of lying about being in Tsarnaev's dorm room. He later acknowledged that he had been in the room while two friends removed a backpack containing potential evidence relating to the bombing.\n\nPhillipos faced a maximum sentence of eight years' imprisonment on each count. In June 2015, U.S. District Judge Douglas P. Woodlock sentenced him to three years in prison. Phillipos filed an appeal, but his sentence was upheld in court on February 28, 2017.\n\nPhillipos was released from prison in Philadelphia on February 26, 2018 and must serve a three year probation upon his release.\n\nA federal indictment was unsealed against Khairullozhon Matanov on May 30, 2014, charging him with \"one count of destroying, altering, and falsifying records, documents, and tangible objects in a federal investigation, specifically information on his computer, and three counts of making materially false, fictitious, and fraudulent statements in a federal terrorism investigation.\" Matanov bought dinner for the two Tsarnaev brothers 40 minutes after the bombing. After the Tsarnaev brothers' photos were released to the public, Matanov viewed the photos on the CNN and FBI websites before attempting to reach Dzhokhar, and then tried to give away his cell phone and delete hundreds of documents from his computer. Prosecutors said that Matanov attempted to mislead investigators about the nature of his relationship with the brothers and to conceal that he shared their philosophy of violence.\n\nMatanov was originally from Kyrgyzstan. He came to the U.S. in 2010 on a student visa, and later claimed asylum. He attended Quincy College for two years before dropping out to become a taxicab driver. He was living in Quincy, Massachusetts at the time of his arrest, and was a friend of Tamerlan Tsarnaev.\n\nIn March 2015, Matanov pleaded guilty to all four counts. In June 2015, he was sentenced to 30 months in prison.\n\nThree people were killed in the bombing. Krystle Marie Campbell, a 29-year-old restaurant manager from Medford, Massachusetts, was killed by the first bomb. Lü Lingzi, () a 23-year-old Chinese national and Boston University graduate student from Shenyang, Liaoning, and 8-year old Martin William Richard from the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, were killed by the second bomb.\n\nSean A. Collier, 27 years old, was ambushed by the bombers as he sat in his police car on April 18, at about 10:48 p.m. He was an MIT police officer, and had been with the Somerville Auxiliary Police Department from 2006 to 2009. He died from multiple gunshot wounds.\n\nBoston Police Department officer Dennis Simmonds died on April 10, 2014 from hand-grenade injuries received during the Watertown shootout a year earlier.\n\nAccording to the Boston Public Health Commission, 264 civilians were treated at 27 local hospitals. Eleven days later, 29 remained hospitalized, one in critical condition. Many victims had lower leg injuries and shrapnel wounds, which indicated that the devices were low to the ground. At least 16 civilians lost limbs, at the scene or by amputation in a hospital, and three lost more than one limb.\n\nDoctors described removing \"ball-bearing type\" metallic beads a little larger than BBs and small carpenter-type nails about long. Similar objects were found at the scene. \"The New York Times\" cited doctors as saying that the bombs mainly injured legs, ankles, and feet because they were low to the ground, instead of fatally injuring abdomens, chests, shoulders, and heads. Some victims had perforated eardrums.\n\nMBTA police officer Richard H. Donohue Jr. (33) was critically wounded during a firefight with the bombers just after midnight on April 19. He lost almost all of his blood, and his heart stopped for 45 minutes, during which time he was kept alive by cardiopulmonary resuscitation. \"The Boston Globe\" reported that Donohue may have been accidentally shot by a fellow officer.\n\nMarc Fucarile lost his right leg and received severe burns and shrapnel wounds. He was the last victim released from hospital care on July 24, 2013.\n\nLaw enforcement, local and national politicians, and various heads of state reacted quickly to the bombing, generally condemning the act and expressing sympathies for the victims.\n\nThe One Fund Boston was established by Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick and Boston mayor Thomas Menino to make monetary distributions to bombing victims. The Boston Strong concert at the TD Garden in Boston on May 30, 2013 benefitted the One Fund, which ultimately received more than $69.8 million in donations. A week after the bombing, crowd funding websites received more than 23,000 pledges promising more than $2 million for the victims, their families, and others affected by the bombing. The Israel Trauma Coalition for Response and Preparedness sent six psychologists and specialists from Israel to help Boston emergency responders, government administrators, and community people develop post-terrorist attack recovery strategies.\n\nNumerous sporting events, concerts, and other public entertainment were postponed or cancelled in the days following the bombing. The MBTA public transit system was under heavy National Guard and police presence and it was shut down a second time April 19 during the manhunt.\n\nIn the days after the bombing, makeshift memorials began to spring up along the cordoned-off area surrounding Boylston Street. The largest was located on Arlington Street, the easternmost edge of the barricades, starting with flowers, tokens, and T-shirts. In June, the Makeshift Memorial located in Copley Square was taken down and the memorial objects located there were moved to the archives in West Roxbury for cleaning, fumigation, and archiving.\n\nFive years after the bombing, The Boston Globe reported all of the items from the memorials were being housed in a climate controlled environment, free of charge, by the storage company, Iron Mountain in Northborough, Massachusetts. Some of the items are also being stored in Boston's city archives in West Roxbury.\n\nBoston University established a scholarship in honor of Lü Lingzi, a student who died in the bombing. University of Massachusetts Boston did the same in honor of alumna and bombing victim Krystle Campell.MIT also established a scholarship and erected a sculpture (unveiled on April 29, 2015), both in memory of MIT Police officer Sean Collier.\n\nOne study conducted by the Institute for Public Service at Suffolk University in Boston, Massachusetts, records the mental health and emotional response of various survivors, for three years following the bombing. In doing so, it reviews the kinds of aid that were available in local hospitals and gives advice as to how a person or community may be healed.\n\nThis study also mentions that after realizing the under coverage of people in the city being killed or injured on a daily basis, the city of Boston \"applied for and received a grant from The Rockefeller Foundation to be part of their 100 resilient cities network and to develop a cross cutting resilience strategy\".\n\nHowever, there was rising anti-Muslim sentiment online and locally in the weeks following the bombing, causing distress in the local Muslim community and leaving some afraid of going out.\n\nPresident Barack Obama addressed the nation after the attack. He said that the perpetrators were still unknown, but that the government would \"get to the bottom of this\" and that those responsible \"will feel the full weight of justice\". He ordered flags to half-staff until April 20 on all federal buildings as \"a mark of respect for the victims of the senseless acts of violence perpetrated on April 15, 2013 in Boston, Massachusetts.\"\n\nMoments of silence were held at various events across the country, including at the openings of the New York Stock Exchange, NASDAQ, and NYMEX on the day after the bombing. Numerous special events were held, including marathons and other runs.\n\nThe bombing was denounced and condolences were offered by many international leaders as well as leading figures from international sport. Security measures were increased worldwide in the wake of the attack.\n\nIn China, users posted condolence messages on Weibo in response to the death of Lü Lingzi. Chris Buckley of \"The New York Times\" said \"Ms. Lu's death gave a melancholy face to the attraction that America and its colleges exert over many young Chinese.\" Laurie Burkitt of \"The Wall Street Journal\" said \"Ms. Lu's death resonates with many in China\" due to the one-child policy.\n\nOrganizers of the London Marathon, which was held six days after the Boston bombing, reviewed security arrangements for their event. Hundreds of extra police officers were drafted in to provide a greater presence on the streets, and a record 700,000 spectators lined the streets. Runners in London observed a 30-second silence in respect for the victims of Boston shortly before the race began, and many runners wore black ribbons on their vests. Organizers also pledged to donate US$3 to a fund for Boston Marathon victims for every person who finished the race.\n\nOrganizers of the 2013 Vancouver Sun Run, which was held on April 21, 2013, donated $10 from every late entry for the race to help victims of the bombing at the Boston Marathon. Jamie Pitblado, vice-president of promotions for The Vancouver Sun and The Province, said the money would go to One Fund Boston, an official charity that collected donations for the victims and their families. Sun Run organizers raised anywhere from $25,000 to $40,000. There were over 48,000 participants, many dressed in blue and yellow (Boston colors) with others wearing Boston Red Sox caps.\n\nPetr Gandalovic, ambassador of the Czech Republic, released a statement after noticing much confusion on Facebook and Twitter between his nation and the Chechen Republic. \"The Czech Republic and Chechnya are two very different entities – the Czech Republic is a Central European country; Chechnya is a part of the Russian Federation.\"\n\nSecurity was also stepped up in Singapore in response to online threats made on attacking several locations in the city-state and the Singapore Marathon in December. Two suspects were investigated and one was eventually arrested for making false bomb threats.\n\nThe Russian government said special attention would be paid to security at upcoming international sports events in Russia, including the 2014 Winter Olympics. According to the Russian embassy in the U.S., President Vladimir Putin condemned the bombing as a \"barbaric crime\" and \"stressed that the Russian Federation will be ready, if necessary, to assist in the U.S. authorities' investigation.\" He urged closer cooperation of security services with Western partners but other Russian authorities and mass media blamed the U.S. authorities for negligence as they warned the U.S. of the Tsarnaevs. Moreover Russian authorities and mass media since the spring of 2014 blame the United States for politically motivated false information about the lack of response from Russian authorities after subsequent U.S. requests. As proof a letter from the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) was shown to the members of an official U.S. Congressional delegation to Moscow during their visit. This letter with information about Tsarnaev (including his biography details, connections and phone number) had been sent from the FSB to the FBI and CIA during March 2011.\n\nRepublican U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss and Richard Burr reported that Russian authorities had separately asked both the FBI (at least twice: during March and November 2011) and the CIA (September 2011) to look carefully into Tamerlan Tsarnaev and provide more information about him back to Russia. Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) secretly recorded phone conversations between Tamerlan Tsarnaev and his mother (they vaguely and indirectly discussed jihad) and sent these to the FBI as evidence of possible extremist links within the family. However, while Russia offered US intelligence services warnings that Tsarnaev planned to link up with extremist groups abroad, an FBI investigation yielded no evidence to support those claims at the time. In addition, subsequent U.S. requests for additional information about Tsarnaev went unanswered by the Russians.\n\nOn April 19, 2013, the press-secretary of the head of the Chechen Republic, Ramzan Kadyrov, issued a statement that, inter alia, read: \"The Boston bombing suspects have nothing to do with Chechnya\". On the same day, Kadyrov was reported by \"The Guardian\" to have written on Instagram:\n\nAny attempt to make a link between Chechnya and the Tsarnaevs, if they are guilty, is in vain. They grew up in the U.S., their views and beliefs were formed there. The roots of evil must be searched for in America. The whole world must battle with terrorism. We know this better than anyone. We wish recover to all the victims and share Americans' feeling of sorrow.\n\nAkhmed Zakayev, head of the secular wing of the Chechen separatist movement, now in exile in London, condemned the bombing as \"terrorist\" and expressed condolences to the families of the victims. Zakayev denied that the bombers were in any way representative of the Chechen people, saying that \"the Chechen people never had and can not have any hostile feelings toward the United States and its citizens.\"\n\nThe Mujahideen of the Caucasus Emirate Province of Dagestan, the Caucasian Islamist organization in both Chechnya and Dagestan, denied any link to the bombing or the Tsarnaev brothers and stated that it was at war with Russia, not the United States. It also said that it had sworn off violence against civilians since 2012.\n\nDuring the manhunt for the perpetrators of the bombing, Governor Deval Patrick said \"we are asking people to shelter in place.\" The request was highly effective; most people stayed home, causing Boston, Watertown, and Cambridge to come to a virtual standstill. According to \"Time\" magazine, \"media described residents complying with a 'lockdown order,' but in reality the governor's security measure was a request.\" Scott Silliman, emeritus director of the Center on Law, Ethics and National Security at Duke Law School, said that the shelter-in-place request was voluntary.\n\nThe shelter-in-place directive was criticized by some commentators. Michael Cohen of \"The Observer\" said that Americans have little experience with daily terrorism compared to some countries and \"are more primed to … assume the absolute worst.\" Cohen wrote that it was not the first time dangerous murderers have been on the loose in a large American city (citing Christopher Dorner in 2013 and the Beltway sniper attacks in 2002), but noted that \"lockdown\" measures were not used in those cases. Former congressman and presidential candidate Ron Paul, criticized what he described as a \"military-style takeover of parts of Boston\" during the investigation and wrote that \"this unprecedented move should frighten us as much or more than the attack itself.\"\n\n\"Haaretz\"s Chemi Salev wrote that \"in terms of cost-benefit analysis, from the evil terrorist's point of view, the Boylston Street bombings and their aftermath can only be viewed as a resounding triumph\" since the \"relatively amateurish\" terrorists managed to intimidate a vast number of people and got a maximum amount of publicity. Responding to Salev in \"The New York Times\", Ross Douthat commented that the massive manhunt operation might deter other amateur terrorists, but not hard-core terrorists such as Mohammed Atta. Douthat argued that out-of-the-ordinary measures can only be used when terrorism itself is out-of-the-ordinary: if attacks started to occur more often, people would not be as willing to comply with shelter-in-place commands, yet once a terrorist has been hunted with such an operation, it is hard to justify why such measures should not be taken the next time.\n\nThe National Lawyers Guild and some news outlets questioned the constitutionality of the door-to-door searches conducted by law enforcement officers looking for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.\n\nOn the afternoon of the bombing, the \"New York Post\" reported that a suspect, a Saudi Arabian male, was under guard and being questioned at a Boston hospital. That evening, Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis said that there had not been an arrest. The \"Post\" did not retract its story about the suspect, leading to widespread reports by CBS News, CNN, and other media that a Middle Eastern suspect was in custody. The day after the bombing, a majority of outlets were reporting that the Saudi was a witness, not a suspect.\n\nThe \"New York Post\" on its April 18 front page showed two men, and said they were being sought by the authorities. The two were not the ones being sought as suspects. They were a 17-year-old boy and his track coach. The boy, from Revere, Massachusetts, turned himself over to the police immediately and was cleared after a 20-minute interview in which they advised him to deactivate his Facebook account. \"New York Post\" editor Col Allan stated, \"We stand by our story. The image was emailed to law enforcement agencies yesterday afternoon seeking information about these men, as our story reported. We did not identify them as suspects.\" The two were implied to be possible suspects via crowdsourcing on the websites Reddit and 4chan.\n\nSeveral other people were mistakenly identified as suspects. Two of those wrongly identified as suspects on Reddit were a 17-year-old track star and Sunil Tripathi, a Brown University student missing since March. Tripathi was found dead on April 23 in the Providence River.\n\nOn April 17, the FBI released the following statement:\nThe decision to release the photos of the Tsarnaev brothers was made in part to limit damage done to those misidentified on the Internet and by the media, and to address concerns over maintaining control of the manhunt.\n\nA film about the Boston Marathon bombing and subsequent manhunt, \"Patriots Day\", was released in December 2016. Another film, \"Stronger\", which chronicles survivor Jeff Bauman, was released in September 2017.\n\n\n\nCongressional hearings\n"}
{"id": "50913636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50913636", "title": "Buyout clause", "text": "Buyout clause\n\nA buyout clause or release clause refers to a clause in a contract that imposes an obligation on another organisation wishing to acquire the services of the employee under contract to pay the (usually substantial) fee of the clause to the organisation which issued the contract and 'owns' the employee.\n\nIt is most commonly used in reference to sports teams, where a transfer fee is usually paid for a player under contract; however, the current owning club is not obliged to sell their player, and if an agreement on a suitable fee cannot be reached, the buying club can instead resort to paying the player's buyout fee – should their contract have such a clause – which the owning club cannot block. Usually this is a higher amount than the player's expected market value, although on occasion a player at a smaller club will sign a contract but insist on a low buyout fee to attract bigger clubs if their performances generate interest.\n\nThe aim of this clause is twofold; firstly with its high amount, competing teams are discouraged from attempting to acquire the player if the current club shows no signs of selling them, and secondly it raises any hint to the players not to go through with their contractual commitment.\n\nIn Spain, buyout clauses have been mandatory in football contracts since 1985. If wishing to rescind their contract, the players are required to pay the buyout fee to their current club personally (via the league body), which would be advanced to them by the club signing them; however this advance of funds was originally deemed by the Spanish government to be taxable income, requiring the buying club to pay income tax on top of the fee itself, with the prohibitively high costs involved in this dual transaction discouraging clubs from making such deals. In October 2016 the laws were changed, with the buyout fee advances to the players no longer subject to tax, meaning only the fee itself had to be paid.\n\nAs of November 2017, the five largest buyout clauses were those of association football players Cristiano Ronaldo and player Karim Benzema of Real Madrid (€1 billion each) – Ronaldo subsequently moved to Juventus (a deal not involving the buyout fee); Isco and Marco Asensio (also Real Madrid, €700 million each), and that of FC Barcelona player Lionel Messi (also €700 million).\n\nOn 3 August 2017, Paris Saint-Germain activated the buyout clause of Brazilian footballer Neymar from FC Barcelona, which was set at €222 million, making him the most expensive football player in history, ahead of the previous record set by Paul Pogba (€105 million) in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "4937455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4937455", "title": "Bye (sports)", "text": "Bye (sports)\n\nA bye in sports (and certain other competitions) refers to organizers scheduling a competitor to not participate in a given round of competition, due to one of several circumstances. \n\nIn knock-out (single-elimination) tournaments this can be granting a special privilege to reward the best ranked participant(s), or to make a working bracket if the number of participants is not a power of two (e.g. 16 or 32) - or both. \n\nIn round-robin tournaments, usually one competitor gets a bye in each round when there are an odd number of competitors, as it is impossible for all competitors to play in the same round. However, over the whole tournament, each plays the same number of games as well as sitting out for the same number of rounds.\n\nSimilar to the round-robin context, in league sports with weekly regular-season play such as gridiron football or rugby, a team not scheduled to play on a given week or fixture (competition period) can be said to be on its \"bye week\". Byes are needed if there is an odd number of teams, but can be used even with an even number of teams, as has been done in the NFL.\n\nIn a standard single-elimination tournament, each round has half the number of teams as the preceding round. Thus the finals will have two, the semi-finals will have four, the quarter finals will have eight, etc. Thus tournaments with competitors numbering a power of two can have a standard bracket in which all teams are paired up with the loser of each match eliminated and the winner moving on to the next round until only one champion remains.\n\nTherefore, if the number of teams is not a power of two, a simple elimination tournament would eventually produce a round with an odd number of teams (if the number is not odd to start with). For example, a tournament of nine teams could only have four matches in the first round, while a simple tournament of ten teams would produce a second round with five teams, meaning only two matches could occur.\nThus, if the number of participants is not a power of two (e.g. 16 or 32), to make a working bracket byes are provided to automatically move certain participants into a later round without requiring them to compete in an earlier one. \n\nWhen participants are ranked, participants with the highest ranking going into the tournament are given a bye to the second round, as it is generally seen as an advantage to be assured entry into a later round. In the NFL playoffs, for example, the top two division-leaders in each conference are given byes to the second round. The Canadian Football League (CFL) also grants a bye to its two division winners, directly to the division finals as four other teams compete in a semi-final week. In other tournaments where teams are unranked, random draw may be used to determine the byes.\n\nThe number of teams offered a bye is generally designed to ensure that the next round consists of a power-of-two number of teams so the tournament can proceed as a simple single-elimination tournament from that round onward. \n\nIf the byes are all single first-round byes into the second round of a tournament, the number of byes required is the difference between the number of teams and the next-highest power of two. For example, a 12-team tournament will require four byes (16−12) to ensure that instead of six teams in the second round, eight advance (as the four byes avoid two of the four teams being eliminated).\n\nIn the Provincial Championships of Gaelic football, some teams receive a bye due to the irregular number of teams competing in each province. The different numbers resulted in different byes alignments in each Provincial Championship.\n\nFor example, below is an assessment of the 2012 Provincial Championships, and their use of the \"bye\".\n\nSeven teams contested the 2012 Connacht Senior Football Championship, so a quarter-final was not played by Mayo. Mayo therefore advanced directly to the semi-final to await the winner of the game between Leitrim and London.\n\nEleven teams contested the 2012 Leinster Senior Football Championship, so five teams were given first round byes. Three teams (Carlow, Dublin and Wexford) played winners of the three preliminary matches, while the other two played each other in the quarter-finals without playing a game in the preliminary round.\n\nSix teams contested the 2012 Munster Senior Football Championship, so two teams (Clare and Cork) were permitted to advance to the semi-finals without playing a game in the quarter-finals.\n\nNine teams contested the 2012 Ulster Senior Football Championship, so only Cavan and Donegal played in the preliminary round, while the other seven advanced via bye to the quarter-finals without playing a game in the preliminary round.\n\nWhile less common, byes can be offered for multiple rounds (e.g. a \"double bye\" directly into the third round), or starting in a later round (e.g. the top-ranked team in the first round is given a bye straight to the third round). A bye granted in a later round of the tournament eliminates the need for two byes in the previous round. \nIn the English FA Cup, the football clubs in the top two league divisions receive two-round byes and enter in the third round \"proper\" (of eight); the two next-highest divisions' teams will have entered in the first round. Another example is the UEFA Europa League.\n\nThe WNBA also grants double byes to the league's top two seeds, while the next two seeds get first-round byes for their playoffs.\n\nIn NCAA Division I basketball, the 2009 Big East Men's Basketball Tournament introduced \"double byes\", as the conference invited all 16 members to participate for the first time (previously only the top twelve were invited). To limit the number of games each round to four, the four highest seeded teams were advanced to the third round of competition, the 5th-8th seeded teams given byes to the second round, and the bottom eight competed the first day. \n\nDue to the realignment of major conferences, \"double byes\" were no longer needed by the Big East after 2013, but were added by the SEC in 2013, the ACC in 2014, and the Big Ten in 2015.\n\nIn certain tournaments, the byes are somewhat disguised. When more teams are given first-round byes than actually compete in the first round, these first games may be referred to as \"play-in\" games and might not be a formally labelled as a tournament round.\n\nSince 2012, the Major League Baseball playoffs has included ten teams consisting of six division winners and four wildcard teams (the top-ranked non-division-winners). The first round of the playoffs consists two wild-card games: single-game matches in which the four wild-card teams are reduced to two. The winners move on to the Divisional series with the six division winners for an eight-team, three-round tournament. Although this is billed as adding two extra \"one-game showdowns\" to the post-season, it could also be viewed as adding a fourth round to the ten-team tournament with six byes for the division winners. \n\nThe FA Cup also has certain teams compete in up to 6 preliminary rounds to qualify for the first round \"proper\". \n\nAnother example is the NCAA Basketball Tournament, which since 2011 has had 68 teams, effectively granting 60 byes, while eight teams compete in the \"First Four\" games for remaining four spots in the round of 64. From 2011 to 2015, the \"First Four\" was considered the first round, the round of 64 played on Thursday and Friday, was called the \"second round\"; the round of 32 was then called the \"third round\", consisting of games played on Saturday and Sunday. In 2016, the naming reverted to the round of 64 being the \"first round\" once again, and the round of 32 being the \"second round\"., though the play-in round and all eight of those teams are officially part of the tournament.\n\nCertain professional rugby and gridiron football leagues use the term \"bye week\" for any week during the regular season in which a team does not play a game. (School teams may also have non-competing weeks, but these are scheduled by individual schools and more commonly termed \"open dates\".)\n\nEach NFL team has one \"bye week\" during a normal season; this is placed on the team's schedule, usually falling between Week 5 and Week 11 inclusive.. The NFL added the bye week in 1990 so as to extend the 16-game regular season schedule to span 17 weeks to increase the number of viewable games for TV contracts. The 1993 NFL season spanned 18 weeks with each team having 2 bye weeks. In the rare case of a game postponement that cannot be made up within the week, a bye week may act as an available date to reschedule the delayed game, with the day of postponement acting as the new \"bye week\"; although both teams would have to be available on the same bye week; this was done during the 2008 NFL season when the Baltimore Ravens and the Houston Texans had to reschedule their Week 2 matchup in Houston due to Hurricane Ike, which also impacted the Cincinnati Bengals' schedule. Similarly, the Miami Dolphins and Tampa Bay Buccaneers were given a Week 1 bye week due to Hurricane Irma in the 2017 season.\n\nDuring the 1960 and 1966 NFL seasons, the league had an odd number of teams due to expansion. Each week during those seasons, one team had a bye, including one team each in the first and last week of the season. (Thus, because they had to play all their games with no break in the middle, those two teams effectively had \"no\" byes.) The American Football League (at the time a completely separate league, but later became the American Football Conference) also had an odd number of teams in 1966 and 1967 following the addition of the Miami Dolphins, leaving each team with two bye weeks.\n\nBetween the 1999 through 2001 seasons, the NFL had an odd number of teams, 31, as a result of the Cleveland Browns re-entering the league. Each week during these three seasons featured at least one team with its bye week (the 2001 season also added an additional impromptu league-wide bye the weekend after the September 11 attacks). The league returned to having an even number of teams (32) in the 2002 season with the addition of the Houston Texans, and implemented the current bye week system.\n\nSarcastically, the media may refer to a team having a \"bye week\" if that team is playing an especially bad team and is all but assured of a win.\n\nTraditionally, the CFL has had nine teams and required bye weeks. Beginning 2018, each team has three bye weeks and 18 games over a 21-week regular season. \n\nIn most seasons, (from 2014 to 2017 and prior to 2007), each team has two bye weeks during the 20 week 18-game regular season. When the league had only 8 teams, the league usually had no bye weeks. However between 2007 and 2013, the league had one bye per team over in two weeks in August (4 teams would have a bye during week 6 and the other 4 teams would have a bye on week 7).\n\nIn Australia's National Rugby League (NRL), each team has two byes each season. During the representative period of the season (such as the State of Origin), byes are generally scheduled to the clubs that are expected to have the most players involved in the representative match, in the round preceding (or following) the representative fixture, to allow those clubs to sufficiently rest those players and prevent them from fielding a weakened side. On the competition ladder, teams are awarded two points (equivalent to a win) during their bye week except for the Melbourne Storm in 2010, who were barred from receiving premiership points for the remainder of the season as a punishment for gross long-term breaches of the salary cap. \n\nThe Australian Football League, which comprises an even number of clubs, gives each club a bye week in mid-season. In 1915, 1919 to 1924, 1942 and 1943, 1991 to 1994 and 2011, when there were an odd number of clubs competing, each club was given two byes.\n\nIn both leagues, and under many other professional and amateur sports leagues in Australia, higher placed teams don't earn byes during finals, but instead the opportunity not to be eliminated by losing their first-round match (also called a double chance). This practice is common in Australia, but it is not used in most other countries, to earn an easier passage to the Grand Final as reward for finishing higher on the ladder. This is different from a double elimination format, in which a team has to lose both in the tournament and the repechage to be eliminated.\n\nIn a variation of the round-robin case, at certain high-level competitions in artistic gymnastics, teams cycle through the apparatuses in an \"Olympic Order\" with scheduled byes in between.\n\nAs an example, the NCAA Women's Gymnastics Championships has 36 teams with six teams apiece at six regional sites, with 12 advancing to two semifinal rounds of six that decide participants for the final \"Super Six\". In each of these nine sextets, each team competes during four of six \"rotations\" with the other two as byes - scheduled before the parallel bars and the floor exercise. For example, Semifinal II of the 2018 championships operated as follows \n\nIn a Swiss-system tournament with an odd number of players, one player gets a bye in each round, but not all players will get a bye (as there are fewer rounds than there are players). However, as with the case of NFL \"bye weeks\", these \"byes\" do not confer any advantage, or in the case of a seeded tournament, that any player/team receiving one is perceived as any better than one that does not, as all of the participants receive one, whereas the awarding of a bye in a single-elimination tournament most definitely does, in both cases.\n"}
{"id": "2176922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2176922", "title": "Ejection (sports)", "text": "Ejection (sports)\n\nIn sports, an ejection (also known as dismissal, sending-off, or disqualification) is the removal of a participant from a contest due to a violation of the sport's rules. The exact violations that lead to an ejection vary depending upon the sport, but common causes for ejection include unsportsmanlike conduct, violent acts against another participant that are beyond the sport's generally accepted standards for such acts, abuse against officials, violations of the sport's rules that the contest official deems to be egregious, or the use of an illegal substance to better a player's game. Most sports have provisions that allow players to be ejected, and many allow for the ejection of coaches, managers, or other non-playing personnel.\n\nThe decision to eject a participant usually lies with one or more officials present at the contest (e.g., referees or umpires). In addition to removal from the contest, many sports leagues provide additional sanctions against participants who have been ejected, such as monetary fines or suspensions from future contests.\n\nWhen the offender is ejected, he/she must leave the immediate playing area; in most cases, this means going to the locker room or other part of the venue out of sight of the playing area, or in extreme cases, leaving the facility grounds. In many youth sports leagues, ejected players are required to stay with their coach in the team area, or at least be supervised by an adult at whatever location the player is required to go. If a participant refuses to cooperate with an ejection, additional sanctions may be levied, such as forfeiture of the contest, monetary fines, or suspensions.\n\nIn the NBA and most other basketball games, a player or coach is ejected from the game if he accumulates two technical fouls of an unsportsmanlike nature over the course of the game. Participants who commit fouls of violence or intentionally enter the stands are ejected summarily regardless of the number of technical fouls accumulated. Ejected players/coaches must leave the court area for the remainder of play, and must do so immediately, or else risk even heavier fines/suspensions. In the NBA, an ejection will result in, at minimum, a $1,000 fine; an ejection for leaving the bench during a fight carries at least a one-game suspension as well. In domestic games, refusing to leave after being ejected can result in a player being put on report. If being put on report does not provide enough encouragement for a player to leave the court, the official may award the game to the opposing team, regardless of score. Players who incur 16 technical fouls in a single NBA season are automatically suspended for one game; an additional suspension is imposed for each increment of two thereafter. Should a player receive the 16th technical foul in the last regular-season game, he will be suspended for the first game in the next season, unless if his team is in the playoffs, when he will be suspended for the first playoff game. In the playoffs, players are suspended if they receive seven technical fouls.\n\nA significant rule change was made in 1981 whereby the NBA eliminated the ejection of a coach for three technical fouls caused by an illegal defense. Also, in the NBA ejections and suspensions are not permissible if a technical foul is caused by an excessive timeout, delay of game, accidental departure from the coach's box, the destruction of a backboard caused by a play (such as a dunk), defensive hanging on any part of the basket unit to successfully touch a ball (Rule 12), or any remaining in the game after six fouls when a team is out of players because of fouls, injuries, and ejections under Rule 3, Section I, paragraph b. These technical fouls are referenced as \"Non-Unsportsmanlike Conduct Technical Fouls\". The NBA all-time leader in disqualifications is Vern Mikkelsen, who was disqualified 127 times in 631 games.\n\nIn FIBA sanctioned games, a player is ejected for two technicals (since October 1, 2014), unsportsmanlike fouls or one disqualifying foul. Technical fouls in FIBA include swinging of elbows without contact and flopping, which are not fouls in the NBA. A coach can be ejected upon having incurred two coach technical fouls, or a combination of three bench and coach technical fouls. There is no separation regarding a \"non-unsportsmanlike conduct technical foul,\" as in the NBA, so two delay of game violations result in an ejection.\n\nIn NFHS contests, ejected players must remain on the team bench, so that they may continue to be supervised by a coach or other adult team representative. If an adult team representative other than the head coach, such as an adult assistant coach, can provide supervision from the court and to the locker room for the duration of the contest, the player may leave the visual confines of the playing area with this representative.\n\nIn NCAA contests, ejected players are dismissed to the locker room; no adult supervision is required as NCAA players are assumed to be legally of adult age.\n\nBasketball also features disqualification, also known as fouling out. A player who commits a certain number of personal fouls in a game (5 or 6 in most leagues), is removed from the game and is said to have \"fouled out\". Unlike ejection, disqualification is not considered a punitive action but rather a natural consequence of a very physical sport with many instances of contact. Disqualified players are permitted to remain on the bench with the team (instead of being sent to the locker room, as with an ejected player) and are not subject to any further penalties (such as fines or suspensions); they can resume play in their next game. In the NBA, a technical foul (which does not count towards suspension or ejection) is also assessed for re-entering a game after fouling out of a game in emergency situations listed in Rule 3, Section I when a team is reduced to five players. Once that occurs, a technical foul is charged if a player remains in the game after his sixth or subsequent foul, or as the last player to foul out, re-enters the game in case of injury to an eligible player that must be removed.\n\nIn baseball, each umpire has a considerable amount of discretion, and may eject any player, coach, or manager solely on his own judgment of unsportsmanlike conduct. The ejectable offense may be an excessively heated or offensive argument with an umpire, offensive interference (contact with the catcher on a play at the plate), malicious game play (especially pitchers attempting to intentionally strike batters with the ball or a manager or coach ordering a pitcher to do so), illegally applying a foreign substance to a bat or otherwise tampering with a ball (most famously, George Brett's Pine Tar Game), using a corked bat, charging the mound, or otherwise fighting. Between players and umpires, there is a common understanding that a certain level of argument is permitted, but players who too vigorously question an umpire's judgment of balls and strikes, or argue a balk, may risk an ejection. A player is also automatically ejected when a bat, glove, cap or helmet is taken off and thrown down in anger and/or confusion.\n\nPersons other than players, coaches and managers, such as spectators, ballpark staff, or members of the media, may be ejected at an umpire's discretion. Depending on the circumstances, spectators who are ejected may also face arrest and prosecution. Bat boys and ball boys may be ejected for not wearing proper safety equipment.\n\nIn some cases, an ejection is followed by a fine or a suspension by the league if the player, or manager or coach, reacts in a very hostile manner towards the umpire. Also, any ejection for malicious game play will normally result in a suspension. Some managers will engage in arguments with umpires specifically to provoke an ejection, in hopes of inspiring a rally from their team. Former Atlanta Braves manager Bobby Cox holds the MLB record for most ejections with 161 while Hall of Fame umpire Bill Klem holds the record for most ejections by an umpire with 251. Baseball has a rich vocabulary for describing ejections: a player or coach may also be \"run\", \"thrown out\", \"banned\", \"given the ol' heave-ho\", \"sent to the clubhouse\", \"hit the showers\", \"tossed\", \"kicked out\", \"dumped\", \"sent off\", \"pitched\", \"bounced out\", \"canned\", \"chucked\", or \"booted\". The umpire can signal an ejection by pointing to the dugout or waving his arm toward the dugout in a “throwing” motion, usually yelling at the ejected person to leave. Fans of a home team usually cheer when a player from the visiting team is ejected. Managers or other players usually come out of the dugout and push the offending player away so as to keep them from getting into more trouble with the umpire. Managers often are simultaneously ejected when attempting to protect a player or otherwise leaving the dugout during play. Once an ejection is called, the ejected person and other associated people usually continue yelling at the umpire, with more anger. This is colloquially known as “getting your money’s worth”.\n\nAny player or team official who commits a personal foul (i.e. striking, kicking, kneeing) against another player or team official, commits an act of unnecessary roughness against another player or team official, commits an act of unsportsmanlike conduct, or commits a palpably unfair act is liable to be disqualified from further participation if the act is found to be flagrant. Any player or team official who fights with another player or team official, leaves the bench to take part in a fight, intentionally makes contact with or assaults a game official, or uses any item of equipment as a weapon is automatically disqualified.\n\nCompared to other American sports (perhaps with the exception of basketball), ejections in American football are relatively uncommon considering the physical nature of the sport. If a player or team official is disqualified, his/her team is assessed a 15-yard penalty, but if a player or team official is disqualified for a palpably unfair act, the distance or score penalty will be determined by the referee after consultation with the other officials.\n\nThe National Football League (NFL) made an experimental rule change on March 23, 2016 for the following season stating that two unsportsmanlike conduct penalties on a player would result in an automatic ejection from the game. Some coaches have expressed concern that this could result in a player with one such penalty being goaded by the opposing team into a second penalty to get them removed from the game.\n\nIn high school football, a player or team official is automatically disqualified if he/she receives two unsportsmanlike conduct penalties in the same game. In college football, a player is automatically disqualified if he/she is determined to have led with the crown of his/her helmet, or targeted a defenseless player in his/her head or neck area. In addition, if said infraction is committed in the second half of a game, the player is suspended for the first half of the following game.\n\nIn association football, a player is dismissed from the field of play by the referee showing him/her a red card if (s)he commits a dismissible offence or has committed a second cautionable (yellow card) offence having already received a yellow card in the same game. The act of ejection is referred to in the sport as \"sending off\".\n\nA difference between being dismissed in association football and the above-mentioned sports is that in association football, a player may not be replaced, forcing his/her team to play a man down for the remainder of the match. Additionally, a dismissal in any professional league results in an automatic suspension of at least one match.\n\nIt is also possible for the manager or other team official to be \"sent off\", which requires him/her to leave his/her dugout and sit in the stands away from the touch line. This usually requires another member of the coaching staff to make decisions for the team, such as substitutes and formation. Also, depending upon the rules of the association presiding over the game, the manager or team official may not be allowed on the bench or to communicate with assistants for at least his/her team's next game.\n\nIf the same team has 5 players who have been \"sent off\", the match is then \"abandoned\", that is, the game no longer continues. The officials then file a game report with the appropriate league or association. The league or associatation then decides if a forfeit will be assessed and what the final score is recorded as.\n\nAccording to the \"Guinness Book of World Records\", the most red cards administered in one game is 20, for a match between Paraguayan teams Sportivo Ameliano and General Caballero that broke down into a generalized brawl and was subsequently abandoned.\n\nIn all codes of rugby, a player may be temporarily suspended for a period of the match. In rugby union and rugby league, the standard suspension period is 10 minutes (out of an 80-minute game). This is generally referred to as a 'yellow card' as players are generally shown one in a manner similar to association football. Suspended players are said to be sent to the sin bin and is signalled by the referee showing two outstretched hands to the offender (rugby league) or by a yellow card (rugby union). In the Northern Hemisphere it is not uncommon for referees to use both red and yellow cards in rugby league, similar to rugby union.\n\nIn rugby union sevens, which normally lasts 14 minutes (20 in finals), the suspension period is 2 minutes. While eight minutes shorter than in fifteens, suspensions are more severe in sevens as one seventh of the team is out for one seventh of the match; this opens up more space than losing one fifteenth of the team for one eighth of the match.\n\nTemporary suspensions are usually given for repeated infringements (by either the same player or team), professional fouls and foul play, such as high tackles. A player cannot be replaced while temporarily suspended, though may be at the conclusion of the suspension period. For more serious offences or a second infraction warranting a temporary suspension sanction, a player may be sent off for the rest of the game, with no replacement allowable.\n\nSpecial conditions exist in rugby union for the replacement of a sinbinned or sent-off front-row forward.\n\nReferees also have the power to send team officials to the stands, similar to that in football.\n\nPrior to 2017, there was no provision in the Laws for a player to be ejected, although post-game disciplinary action could occur. There was however, provision in the Laws (Law 42 prior to 2017, now Law 41) for umpires to suspend a bowler from bowling in the remainder of his team's innings, detailed below.\n\nThe Laws of Cricket 2017 Code introduced a new Law (Law 42) dealing with players' conduct, as by then it was widely accepted that a need existed to provide the umpires with on-field sanctions for poor conduct, and that such sanction could lead to sending off for acts of violence. Under the new Law, four different levels of offences were created: a Level 3 offence (intimidating an umpire by language or gesture, or threatening to assault a player or any other person except an umpire) results in the offending player being suspended for a number of overs dependent on the length of the match, while a Level 4 offence (threatening to assault or making inappropriate or deliberate physical contact with an umpire, physically assaulting a player or any other person, or committing any other act of violence) results in the offending player being removed from the field for the remainder of the match.\n\nIn circumstances where a players' conduct offence of any level has been committed, the umpires will halt the game, summon the offending player's captain to the field, inform the captain of the breach of Law and the associated penalty and, in the cases of a Level 3 or Level 4 offence, instruct the captain to remove the offending player from the field. If the offending player's captain refuses to comply with an instruction to remove a player, the umpires will consider awarding the match to the opposition, or will abandon the match in a case where both captains are involved and both refuse to comply. Furthermore, any players' conduct offence will result in a report to the Executive of the offending player’s team and to any Governing Body responsible for the match who, as was the case in the prior Laws, may take additional disciplinary action after the match.\n\nAdditionally, the umpires have the power to eject a bowler from the team's bowling attack for the remainder of the innings (or in the case of a one-innings match or the second innings of a two-innings match, the remainder of the match) if the bowler, after having received one or two prior warnings (depending on prior offences), is guilty of throwing (law 21.3), ball-tampering (law 41.3), dangerous and unfair bowling (laws 41.6 to 41.8), time wasting (law 41.9) or running onto the protected area of the pitch (law 41.13). Any bowler who is guilty of deliberately bowling a high full-pitched ball (law 41.7) is automatically ejected. If a bowler is ejected, the umpires will direct the captain of the fielding team, once the ball is dead, to take the bowler off forthwith. If there is an over in progress when the bowler is ejected, it shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled the previous over nor be allowed to bowl the next over. The bowler thus ejected shall not bowl again in that innings.\n\nIn ice hockey, there are several types of ejections for penalties: a \"game ejection\", \"game misconduct penalty\", \"match penalty\", and formerly \"gross misconduct penalty\".\n\nDuring games sanctioned by Hockey Canada, a \"game ejection\" is issued for three stick infraction penalties and is rather rare. These penalties include cross checking, high sticking, butt ending, slashing, and spearing.\n\nA game misconduct penalty is usually issued against a player for unsportsmanlike play, escalating a fight, or leaving the penalty box before he has completed serving time for another penalty, although some major penalties carry an automatic game misconduct. If a player incurs three game misconducts in a season, (s)he will be given a one-match ban. The player must leave the ice immediately, and a substitute may take over. However, if any other penalties are incurred by the ejected player in the same incident, they must be served in the penalty box by the substituting player. By the USA Hockey rules a player can receive a game misconduct for violently checking an opponent into the boards from behind, or if the opponent's head strikes the boards or the goal frame as a result of the check from behind. It is also common knowledge that a player receives a game misconduct, regardless of the force of the hit, the second time (s)he checks an opponent from behind.\n\nA match penalty is usually issued against a player for deliberately attempting to injure another player, such as stomping on him with his/her skate or a malicious hit. In addition to the offending player being immediately ejected (and usually subject to suspension), another player must serve a five-minute major penalty in the penalty box in addition to any other penalties imposed. The only exception is if a match penalty is against a goaltender, in which case the replacement goaltender can enter the ice immediately and a non-goaltender player serves the penalties. Match penalties may also be automatically flagged for review and supplementary discipline, depending on the league or association.\n\nPrior to 2000, a gross misconduct was normally issued for an action far outside the normal level of acceptable behavior and was commonly given when a player has \"made a travesty of the game\".\n\nAn ejection is called for a hold, sink, or pullback by a defensive player. If a player commits a foul within 5 meters to the goal that prevents a probable goal the offense will be awarded a penalty shot. Ejections and penalties are also awarded due to interference of a play. For example, if an ordinary foul is called (one blast of whistle) and the defensive player continues to play on that player, an ejection will be awarded. If the player fails to make their way to the penalty box, the offensive team will be awarded a penalty shot. The replacement player may not join play until a change of possession, turnover or once 20 seconds elapse. Should the player acquire 3 personal fouls (penalties/ejections) the player must sit out for the remainder the game. Players in the water that acquire a misconduct (shown by circular hand motions by the referee) may no longer participate in the game and must sit out for the remainder of the game. Coaches and players on the bench may be removed by being awarded a red card. For Flagrant Misconducts and Brutalities the player may no longer participate for the remainder of the game, leave the playing area, and must face the consequences following their respective rulebook (NCAA, FINA, NFHS, etc.)\n\nIn field lacrosse, an ejection (expulsion foul) is issued for a severe penalty, such as fighting, leaving the bench to take part in a fight, malicious hits, deliberately attempting to injure another player, blatant fouls at the end of or immediately following a game, or, in high school, receiving two unreleasable unsportsmanlike conduct penalties. Coaches and team officials can also be ejected for being caught using alcohol or tobacco during a game.\n\nThe team guilty of the expulsion foul must serve a three-minute non-releasable penalty, and the ejected player/coach/official is suspended for at least the next game.\n\nFouling out occurs if a player incurs five minutes of personal foul penalty time (I.e. slashing, illegal body check, tripping, unnecessary roughness, unsportsmanlike conduct, punishable by a one to three minute penalty), but does not result in a suspension from the next game.\n\nTechnical fouls do not count towards the five minutes; however a player may be called for unsportsmanlike conduct if they repeatedly commit the same technical foul, in which case it would count toward fouling out.\n\nIn some instances, a player or coach who is ejected must serve a suspension and may pay a fine. Often, the suspension is one game for the first offense, with harsher penalties depending on subsequent ejections and the severity of the offense. Sometimes in professional sports, a fine may be sanctioned against a player or coach.\n\nMost NFHS contests require ejected players to remain in the team area, so they may be supervised by a responsible team adult, usually the head or assistant coach (as requiring a minor to leave an area unsupervised can lead to legal liabilities). If the player continues to be unruly, other solutions may be implemented such as requiring an assistant coach to leave the area with the player, handing the player over to the school administrator on duty, requiring the player's parents/legal guardians to take the player home, or more rarely, if the ejected player becomes violent, law enforcement to take them into custody.\n\n"}
{"id": "37492286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37492286", "title": "FIH All-Star Teams", "text": "FIH All-Star Teams\n\nThe FIH All-Star Teams are a group of selected players and coaches chosen every year after the recommendations and opinions of field hockey players, officials, coaches and journalists. These players are considered to have given their best during the year in every competition and contributed in some way to improve the sport itself. This award is given by the International Hockey Federation since the year 2006 both in men and women's category. \n"}
{"id": "49280316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49280316", "title": "Femke Van den Driessche", "text": "Femke Van den Driessche\n\nFemke Van den Driessche (born 27 August 1996) is a Belgian former cyclo-cross cyclist, mountainbiker and road racing cyclist.\n\nAs a junior, she became national cyclo-cross champion in 2011 and mountain bike champion in 2013. In 2015, Van den Driessche won the European Cyclo-cross Championships in the women's under-23 category, and in 2016 she became Belgian champion in the same category, but both titles were stripped later.\n\nShe became the first cyclist to officially be charged with mechanical doping, which arose from an incident that occurred at the 2016 UCI Cyclo-cross World Championships. On 26 April 2016, she was retroactively banned from the sport for six years from 11 October 2015 until 10 October 2021, and all her results since that time shall be disqualified.\n\nAs a junior, she became national cyclo-cross champion in 2011 and junior national mountain bike champion in 2013. At the junior cyclocross championships she won the silver medal in 2013, winning in 2014 the silver medal at the junior national mountain bike championships. She was also active as a road cyclist and won the provincial time trial championships in the novices category in 2012 after finishing second in the same race the year before.\n\nIn the \"Middelkerke\" cyclocross race in February 2015 she finished third behind Sanne Cant and the British rider Helen Wyman.\n\nVan den Driessche competed between May and July 2015 on the road in international races in Belgium and the Netherlands. She competed in the national road race championships, BeNe Ladies Tour, Diamond Tour and Gooik-Geraardsbergen-Gooik.\n\nIn the 2015-16 cyclosross season Van den Driessche was beaten at the \"Koppenberg\" race by Jolien Verschueren in November 2015. Later that month she won her biggest race in her career, the European Cyclo-cross Championships in the women's under-23 category. In January 2016 she became Belgian cyclocross champion in the same category.\n\nVan den Driessche started as one of the favorites during the women's under-23 race at the 2016 World Championships, but failed to finish. Her race was interrupted as she had mechanical problems and electrical cables were observed hanging from her bike during a pit stop equipment check.\n\nDuring the race, the UCI checked the bicycles of Van den Driessche and found a motor in a bicycle that was in her pit. Almost six years since the first allegations of \"mechanical doping\" in cycling, this was the first time in cycling history that evidence of technological fraud had been found. The UCI had been testing a new detection system. The offence carries a minimum six-month suspension and a fine of between SFr20,000 and 200,000. Van den Driessche denies she intended to cheat, and maintains that the bicycle was owned by a friend and was taken to the pit in error. In the days following the incident, the friend who was claimed by Van den Driessche, Nico Van Muylder, said to \"Het Nieuwsblad\" that the bike was his. However, UCI technical regulation 12.1.013, bars the presence of motors on the bike, regardless of intent or whether the bike was actually used, going to be used or even belonged to anyone on the team. Riders are responsible under strict liability.\n\nIn a clip that was later analyzed from the \"Koppenbergcross\" cyclo-cross race in November 2015 some moments look amiss. At one point she pulls away from the break on a cobble climb; apparently with little effort and still sitting on the saddle while others look laboured. At another point where she misses a couple of pedal strokes as she fiddles with her gears, it doesn't seem to take too much from her momentum despite being on an incline at the time.\n\nOn 31 January 2016, Brian Cookson of the UCI held a press conference. He said “It is no secret that a motor was found.” He used three different phrases to characterize use of the motor as \"technological doping\", \"mechanical doping\" and \"technological fraud\". 'Legal' proceedings would be commenced, which could result in sanctions of the rider, team or staff. Possible penalties for the rider can be fines up to SFr200,000, and a lifetime ban from the sport. the team could be fined up to SFr1 million. The matter will be heard by an independent Disciplinary Commission that is charged to hear evidence from \"all relevant parties\" and render its decision on whether a rule violation is proved and the amount of sanctions, if any, for breaches of the UCI Regulations.\n\nThe degree of her culpability given her age, experience, and the responsibility of her team is an issue. Size of any sanction is controversial, as some riders are deeply affronted by the alleged infraction. Claims have been made that she would receive the minimum sanction, as the weight of full sanctions might be unjust. That matter was referred to Philippe Muyters, the Flemish Minister for Sport. Etixx team manager Patrick Lefevere thought a \"lifetime suspension for the cheat\" was appropriate.\n\n\"I never thought that such schemes were possible. It's a scandal that Femke's entourage have deceived the Belgian federation,\" he said.\nHer sponsors expressed outrage at her breach of trust, and said that they would start their own legal actions. \"We thought that we had in Femke a great talent in the making but it seems that she fooled everyone.\" One cyclocross veteran, Sven Nys expressed shock and disappointment. Managing director Andrea Gastaldello, said he was \"stunned\" by the news that Van den Driessche competed with a concealed motor in her Wilier Triestina bike, \"Our company will take legal action against the athlete and against any (person) responsible for this very serious matter to safeguard the reputation and image of the company,\" he said.\n\nOn 14 March 2016, Van den Driessche announced she would not be defending herself in front of the disciplinary committee on March 15. She cited the heavy suspension demanded by the prosecution and the prohibitive cost of such a procedure in Switzerland. She said she was being denied the chance of getting a fair trial, as she had already been tried and convicted in the court of public opinion. Van den Driessche also announced her immediate retirement from cycling.\n\nOn 26 April 2016, it was announced by the UCI that Driessche had been banned for six years and would forfeit all results since 10 October 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10510951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10510951", "title": "Field house", "text": "Field house\n\nField house or fieldhouse is a common name for indoor sports arenas and stadiums, mostly used for college basketball, volleyball, or ice hockey. Additionally it is known to serve as a support building for various adjacent sports fields, i.e. locker room, team room, coaches' offices, etc. When spelled \"Field House\", it may also refer to a residence owned by someone named Field.\n\nThis American English term dates from the 1890s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894710", "title": "Football pitch", "text": "Football pitch\n\nA football pitch (also known as a football field or soccer field) is the playing surface for the game of association football. Its dimensions and markings are defined by Law 1 of the Laws of the Game, \"The Field of Play\". The surface can either be natural or artificial. Artificial surfaces must be green in colour. The pitch is typically made of turf (grass) or artificial turf, although amateur and recreational teams often play on dirt fields.\n\nAll line markings on the pitch form part of the area which they define. For example, a ball on or above the touchline is still on the field of play, and a foul committed over the line bounding the penalty area results in a penalty. Therefore, a ball must completely cross the touchline to be out of play, and a ball must wholly cross the goal line (between the goal posts) before a goal is scored; if any part of the ball is still on or above the line, the ball is still in play.\n\nThe field descriptions that apply to adult matches are described below. Note that due to the original formulation of the Laws in England and the early supremacy of the four British football associations within IFAB, the standard dimensions of a football pitch were originally expressed in imperial units. The Laws now express dimensions with approximate metric equivalents (followed by traditional units in brackets), but use of the imperial units remains common in some countries, especially in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe pitch is rectangular in shape. The longer sides are called touchlines. The other opposing sides are called the goal lines. The two goal lines must be between and be the same length. The two touch lines must also be of the same length, and be between in length. All lines must be equally wide, not to exceed . The corners of the pitch are marked by corner flags.\n\nFor international matches the field dimensions are more tightly constrained; the goal lines must be between long and the touch lines must be between .\nIn March 2008 the IFAB attempted to standardise the size of the football pitch for international matches and set the official dimensions of a pitch to . However, at a special meeting of the IFAB on 8 May 2008, it was ruled that this change would be put on hold pending a review and the proposed change has not been implemented.\n\nAlthough the term \"goal line\" is often taken to mean only that part of the line between the goalposts, in fact it refers to the complete line at either end of the pitch, from one corner flag to the other. In contrast, the term \"byline\" (or \"by-line\") is often used to refer to that portion of the goal line outside the goalposts. This term is commonly used in football commentaries and match descriptions, such as this example from a BBC match report; \"Udeze gets to the left byline and his looping cross is cleared...\"\n\n\"Goals\" are placed at the centre of each goal-line.\nThese consist of two upright posts placed equidistant from the corner flagposts, joined at the top by a horizontal crossbar. The inner edges of the posts must be apart, and the lower edge of the crossbar must be above the ground. Nets are usually placed behind the goal, though are not required by the Laws.\n\nGoalposts and crossbars must be white, and made of wood, metal or other approved material. Rules regarding the shape of goalposts and crossbars are somewhat more lenient, but they must conform to a shape that does not pose a threat to players. Since the beginning of the football there have always been goalposts, but the crossbar wasn't invented until 1875, before which a string between the goalposts was used.\n\nA goal is scored when the ball crosses the goal line between the goal-posts, even if a defending player last touched the ball before it crossed the goal line (see own goal). A goal may, however, be ruled illegal (and void by the referee) if the player who scored or a member of his team commits an offence under any of the laws between the time the ball was previously out of play and the goal being scored. It is also deemed void if a player on the opposing team commits an offence before the ball has passed the line, as in the case of fouls being committed, a penalty awarded but the ball continued on a path that caused it to cross the goal line.\n\nThe football goal size for a junior match goal is approximately half the size of an adult sized match goal.\n\nFootball goals were first described in England in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. In 1584 and 1602 respectively, John Norden and Richard Carew referred to \"goals\" in Cornish hurling. Carew described how goals were made: \"they pitch two bushes in the ground, some eight or ten foote asunder; and directly against them, ten or twelue [twelve] score off, other twayne in like distance, which they terme their Goales\". The first reference to \"scoring a goal\" is in John Day's play \"The Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green\" (performed circa 1600; published 1659). Similarly in a poem in 1613, Michael Drayton refers to \"when the Ball to throw, And drive it to the Gole, in squadrons forth they goe\". Solid crossbars were first introduced by the Sheffield Rules. Football nets were invented by Liverpool engineer John Brodie in 1891, and they were a necessary help for discussions about whether or not a goal had been scored.\n\nTwo rectangular boxes are marked out on the pitch in front of each goal.\n\nThe \"goal area\" (colloquially the \"six-yard box\"), consists of the rectangle formed by the goal-line, two lines starting on the goal-line from the goalposts and extending into the pitch from the goal-line, and the line joining these. Goal kicks and any free kick by the defending team may be taken from anywhere in this area. Indirect free kicks awarded to the attacking team within the goal area are taken from the point on the line parallel to the goal line (the \"six-yard line\") nearest where the infringement occurred; they cannot be taken any closer to the goal line. Similarly drop-balls that would otherwise occur closer to the goal line are taken on this line.\n\nThe \"penalty area\" (colloquially \"The 18-yard box\" or just \"The box\") is similarly formed by the goal-line and lines extending from it, but its lines start from the goalposts and extend into the field. This area has a number of functions, the most prominent being to denote where the goalkeeper may handle the ball and where a foul by a defender, usually punished by a direct free kick, becomes punishable by a penalty kick. Both the goal and penalty areas were formed as halfcircles until 1902.\n\nThe \"penalty mark\" is in front of the very centre of the goal; this is the point from where penalty kicks are taken.\n\nThe \"penalty arc\" (colloquially \"the D\") is marked from the outside edge of the penalty area, from the penalty mark; this, along with the penalty area, marks an exclusion zone for all players other than the penalty kicker and defending goalkeeper during a penalty kick.\n\nThe \"centre circle\" is marked at from the \"centre mark\". Similar to the penalty arc, this indicates the minimum distance that opposing players must keep at kick-off; the ball itself is placed on the \"centre mark\". During penalty shootouts all players other than the two goalkeepers and the current kicker are required to remain within this circle.\n\nThe \"half-way line\" divides the pitch in two. The half which a team defends is commonly referred to as being their half. Players must be within their own half at a kick-off and may not be penalised as being offside in their own half. The intersections between the half-way line and the touchline can be indicated with flags like those marking the corners – the laws consider this as an optional feature.\n\nThe arcs in the \"corners\" denote the area (within 1 yard of the corner) in which the ball has to be placed for corner kicks; opposition players have to be away during a corner, and there may be optional lines off-pitch 9.15 metres (10 yards) away from the corner arc on the goal- and touch-lines to help gauge these distances.\n\nGrass is the normal surface of play, although artificial turf may sometimes be used especially in locations where maintenance of grass may be difficult due to inclement weather. This may include areas where it is very wet, causing the grass to deteriorate rapidly; where it is very dry, causing the grass to die; and where the turf is under heavy use. Artificial turf pitches are also increasingly common on the Scandinavian Peninsula, due to the amount of snow during the winter months. The strain put on grass pitches by the cold climate and subsequent snow clearing has necessitated the installation of artificial turf in the stadia of many top-tier clubs in Norway, Sweden and Finland. The latest artificial surfaces use rubber crumbs, as opposed to the previous system of sand infill. Some leagues and football associations have specifically prohibited artificial surfaces due to injury concerns and require teams' home stadia to have grass pitches. All artificial turf must be green and also meet the requirements specified in the FIFA Quality Concept for Football Turf.\n\nFootball can also be played on a dirt field. In most parts of the world, dirt is only used for casual recreational play.\n\n"}
{"id": "4121912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4121912", "title": "Glossary of cue sports terms", "text": "Glossary of cue sports terms\n\nThe following is a glossary of traditional English-language terms used in the three overarching cue sports disciplines: \"carom (or carambole) billiards\" referring to the various games played on a billiard table without ; \"pool (pocket billiards)\", which denotes a host of games played on a table with six pockets; and \"snooker\", played on a large pocket table, and which has a sport culture unto itself distinct from pool. There are also hybrid pocket/carom games such as English billiards.\nThe term \"\" is sometimes used to refer to all of the cue sports, to a specific class of them, or to specific ones such as English billiards; this article uses the term in its most generic sense unless otherwise noted.\n\nThe labels \"British\" and \"UK\" as applied to entries in this glossary refer to terms originating in the UK and also used in countries that were fairly recently part of the British Empire and/or are part of the Commonwealth of Nations, as opposed to US (and, often, Canadian) terminology. The terms \"American\" or \"US\" as applied here refer generally to North American usage. However, due to the predominance of US-originating terminology in most internationally competitive pool (as opposed to snooker), US terms are also common in the pool context in other countries in which English is at least a minority language, and US (and borrowed French) terms predominate in carom billiards. Similarly, British terms predominate in the world of snooker, English billiards and blackball, regardless of the players' nationalities.\n\nThe term \"blackball\" is used in this glossary to refer to both blackball and eight-ball pool as played in the Commonwealth, as a shorthand. Blackball was chosen because it is less ambiguous (\"eight-ball pool\" is too easily confused with the related \"eight-ball\"), and blackball is globally standardized by an International Olympic Committee-recognized governing body, the World Pool-Billiard Association (WPA); meanwhile, its ancestor, eight-ball pool, is largely a folk game, like North American , and to the extent that its rules have been codified, they have been done so by competing authorities with different rulesets. (For the same reason, the glossary's information on eight-ball and nine-ball draws principally on the stable WPA rules, because there are many competing amateur leagues and even professional tours with divergent rules for these games.)\n\nForeign-language terms are generally not within the scope of this list, unless they have become an integral part of billiards terminology in English (e.g. ), or they are crucial to meaningful discussion of a game not widely known in the English-speaking world.\n\n In Russian pyramid, the cue ball is usually red, but any ball can be used as a cue ball, with the exception of \"dynamic pyramid\" variant.\n"}
{"id": "20167640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20167640", "title": "Indianapolis 500 traditions", "text": "Indianapolis 500 traditions\n\nDue to the longevity of the Indianapolis 500, numerous traditions surrounding the race have developed over the years. Traditions include procedures for the running of the race, scheduling, and pre-race and post-race festivities. For many fans, these traditions are an important aspect of the race, and they have often reacted quite negatively when the traditions are changed or broken.\n\nAs part of the Memorial Day holiday weekend, the pre-race ceremonies of the Indianapolis 500 feature several patriotic songs. Like most other sporting events, the national anthem is performed before the race by a notable vocalist. The most noteworthy and most popular traditions are the annual singing of \"Back Home Again in Indiana,\" and the victory lane bottle of milk.\n\nThe two to three weeks of practice and qualifying leading up to the Indianapolis 500 is known in racing circles simply as \"the month of May [at Indianapolis]\". In early years, the track traditionally opened for practice on May 1 (regardless of the day of the week). This practice dated back to 1911. The policy was typically to make the track available for practice no later than May 1, although in most years, few if any competitors would be on the grounds yet. In some years, the track would be available for practice and testing as early as April. For instance, in 1932, cars began to arrive on April 6, and in 1969, the first day of practice was April 28. In very early years, it was not uncommon for the track to be closed on Sunday during practice, or be open for only competitors with the gates were closed to the public. In 1974, due to the energy crisis, the schedule was reduced, and the track opened instead three weeks before race day. The change was well-received, and the new schedule was made permanent, with various tweaks over the years.\n\nIn 2014, a second race at Indianapolis was introduced to the IndyCar Series schedule, conducted on the track's road course. The new event is held two weeks before the 500. \n\nThough not part of the month of May, since the mid-2010s, Founders Day has been recognized and celebrated at the Speedway each year on March 20. That coincides with the date in 1909 in which the Speedway was incorporated. Since 2017, Founders Day is the date in which inductees to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Hall of Fame are announced.\n\nThe race has always been scheduled in conjunction with Memorial Day. Through 1970, the race was held on Memorial Day proper (May 30), regardless of the day of the week, unless it fell on Sunday. In those cases it was scheduled for Monday May 31. After the Uniform Monday Holiday Act took effect in 1971, the race was scheduled as part of the three-day Memorial Day weekend - either the Saturday, the Sunday, or the Monday of the holiday weekend. Since 1974, the race has been scheduled for the Sunday of Memorial Day weekend, and has been held on a Sunday with only two exceptions due to rain delays.\n\nSundays were avoided for scheduling race activity dating all the way back to pre-500 races in 1909 and 1910. In early decades, Sundays were occasionally used for practice and/or qualifying, but were used sparingly in pre-World War II years. In some early years, practice may have been permitted on Sundays, but the gates might not be open to the public. When Tony Hulman bought the Speedway after World War II, Speedway management continued to refuse to schedule the race on a Sunday, a policy that stayed in place through 1973. Qualifying and practice, however, were regularly held on Sundays during those years, with no days closed to spectators.\n\nArmed Forces Day also falls during the month of May, and usually coincides with one of the weekends of time trials. Since 1978 at the Speedway, that weekend is often filled with activities honoring the U.S. military, including an oath of enlistment ceremony.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe longtime flagship of the IMS Radio Network is WFNI AM 1070 (formerly 1070 WIBC). The network dates back to 1952, and was initially launched using WIBC talent. Since the late 1960s and early 1970s, the station has featured extensive daily coverage of practice, qualifications, as well as pre-race and post-race coverage on race day.\n\nSince 1971, the most popular and most traditional daily show during the month of May has been Donald Davidson's \"The Talk of Gasoline Alley\".\n\nSince 1998, a concert featuring a top act(s) have been held the weekend of the race. Numerous other local bands, indie bands, garage bands, and smaller musical acts perform at other times during the month on days featuring track activity. Since 1998, a headlining concert has been held on Carb Day. Starting in 2014, a second headlining concert has been held on Legends Day. The Carb Day concert has typically featured rock groups, while Legends Day typically stars country music artists.\n\nThe performers have been as follows:\n\nA few days before the race, the \"Last Row Party\" has been held for charity since 1972. It is a scholarship benefit organized by the Indianapolis Press Club Foundation, and is usually held the Thursday evening or Friday evening before the race. Currently it is held at one of the suites in the Pagoda, and previously it was held at the Speedway Motel. The event is conducted as a roast and cocktail party for the final three qualifiers in the 500, who will be starting on the eleventh and final row (positions 31, 32, and 33). Due to the complex qualifying procedure for the race, these three drivers are usually, but not always, the slowest three cars in the field. Like Mr. Irrelevant, often some of these drivers are obscure, and several have been race rookies. Some are noted for a dramatic last-minute qualifying effort to secure a spot in the lineup, while others may have survived a Bump day scare, or an otherwise tumultuous month of May, to hold on to make the field. Nine former or eventual race winners have participated in the honor at some time during their career (Rutherford, Johncock, Sneva, Cheever, Lazier, Hunter-Reay, Kanaan, Sato, Rossi).\n\nIn addition to being on the receiving end of numerous good-natured jokes and jabs, the three drivers are presented with a special jacket, various gifts, and checks for 31¢, 32¢, and 33¢, respectively. The group becomes known as the \"11th Row Society\", an enjoys a buffet dinner, apéritif, cocktails, and hors d'oeuvre with attendees. Later they may sign autographs and pose for pictures, in what is generally a fun and laid-back environment. The emcee for the event is usually a media figure, and past hosts include Bob Jenkins, Robin Miller, Jack Arute, Dave Wilson, and Laura Steele. The 2015 and 2016 co-emcees were Curt Cavin (\"Indianapolis Star\") and Chris Hagen (WXIN). Lindy Thackston hosted the event for 2017 and 2018. The 2013 reception was not held but a brief ceremony was held on Carb Day to recognize the honorees.\n\nRecent honorees include:\n\nThe day before the race, a ceremonial drivers meeting is held at the track, which is open to the public, and is popularly attended. This tradition dates back many decades. During the meeting, the 33 starting drivers are presented with their starter's ring and various awards and trophies are handed out (such as trophies from the previous year's race, qualifying awards, lifetime achievement awards, etc.) The drivers are usually seated on a platform situated in the eleven rows of three, and numerous other celebrities and special guests may be honored or give remarks. Rules clarifications, instructions for the race, and other pertinent information is also discussed in the open forum. Drivers who can not attend due to scheduling conflicts (e.g., participating in another race) will usually have another team member or family member participate on their behalf.\n\nThis drivers meeting is separate from the official drivers meeting, organized by race stewards. That meeting, held the morning of the race, is strictly closed to the public and the media.\n\nStarting in 1998, the days leading up to the race have included ceremonies and activities honoring former drivers. In some years, each day during the week would have a featured Indy legend, and might feature the driver taking ceremonial laps around the track in one of his winning race cars, or in a pace car. Other years utilized Opening Day as an opportunity to honor Indy legends. In addition, the day before the race was expanded to include an autograph session featuring the 33 starting drivers, former drivers, Q&A sessions, car displays, a \"fanfest\" midway, a memorabilia show, and other festivities. Starting 2011, the events of the day before the race have been officially themed \"Legends Day,\" and features a designated honoree. In addition, Legends Day showcases the classic cars of the 500: fans are able to get close looks and take photos of the machines, with a number of historic race cars also running laps of the circuit.\n\nLegends Day honorees\n\nThe 500 Festival is a non-profit organization founded in 1957 to organize various civic events in the city of Indianapolis leading up to the race. The two largest events are the OneAmerica 500 Festival Mini-Marathon in early May, and the 500 Festival Parade the day before the race. Other events have included \"Community Day\" at the track, memorial services, luncheons, and the annual Snake Pit Ball, a black tie socialite gathering downtown.\n\nIn many years, the parade grand marshal has been a celebrity with ties to Indiana or the Indianapolis area, particularly Indianapolis-area sports figures. In many cases, the grand marshal of the parade is also honored during pre-race festivities on race morning. The organizing committee boasts the parade as one of the largest in the nation. In 1997, a fire swept through the storage hangar housing the floats for that year's parade, threatening to cancel the event. Only four floats were spared, and Buddy Lazier's 1996 winning car escaped the fire only because the museum had decided to wait a few extra days before delivering it to the float staging area. The parade went on as scheduled, but in a slightly retooled format.\n\nThe grand marshals for the annual parade have been as follows:\n\n\nThe atmosphere at the track during the month of May and on race day has long been a source of traditions.\nThe nickname of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway is the \"Brickyard.\" When the track opened in August 1909, the surface was composed of crushed stone and tar. This surface quickly was deemed unsuitable and dangerous after multiple accidents. In the fall of 1909, the track was paved in brick. In just over two months, 3.2 million bricks were hand laid on a bed of sand and the gaps were filled with mortar. Before the work was completed, locals nicknamed the track the \"Brickyard\". Beginning in the 1930s, portions of the track were paved over in asphalt. By the late 1950s, only a portion of the mainstretch remained brick.\n\nFollowing the 1961 race, the remaining part of the mainstretch was paved over, and the entire track was now covered in asphalt. One yard of bricks was left exposed at the start/finish line. The vast majority of the original 3.2 million bricks remain in place, several inches underneath the asphalt. Some bricks have been unearthed from the track over the years, namely in the locations where the infield access tunnels have been constructed. Subsequent repavings of the track in 1976, 1988, 1995, and 2004, have also kept the bricks in place underneath. However, the yard of bricks exposed at the start/finish line has been dug up in those instances, and different bricks - ostensibly bricks that were dug up at one point from other parts of the track - were cleanly laid in place.\n\nIn 2000 when the new Pagoda and Pagoda Plaza were built, the yard of bricks was extended from the track surface across the pit lane and then through to the spectator areas in the new Pagoda Plaza.\n\nThe garage area at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway is known as \"Gasoline Alley.\" The nickname dates back to the early decades of the race, and for a time, referred specifically to one particular spot in the back where cars would refuel. Though the exact origin of the name is unclear, it may be loosely linked to the eponymous comic strip. Later, the nickname was used for the main corridor of the garage area, and eventually was used colloquially for the entire garage complex. The use of gasoline at the Indy 500 was phased out in favor of methanol beginning in 1965 (and later ethanol in 2006), but the nickname nonetheless remained. Gasoline was not used again at Indy until NASCAR arrived for the Brickyard 400 in 1994.\n\nThe first garage area consisted of one double-sided bank of garages running east-west. It was in the same general location as the present day complex. In the very early years, the foreign entries were housed in a second garage complex outside of turn two. In 1929, a second row of garages was constructed alongside the first, creating the soon-to-be familiar Gasoline Alley corridor. The original garages were known for their signature green and white barn doors, and were sometimes visually compared to horse stables, as the complex loosely resembled a horse racing paddock.\n\nOne of the fixtures of the garage area was Tom Bealle's diner, an outdoor restaurant and gathering place, popular with drivers, mechanics, officials, and fans. Bealle often allowed drivers to run up a tab during the month of May, allowing them to pay their bill once they received their prize money at the end of the month.\n\nA fire swept through the garage area on the morning of the 1941 race, and burned down a significant portion of the south bank of garages. They were replaced, and eventually the complex expanded to 88 stalls. As the sport grew, and the cars and teams became larger and more sophisticated, work space was increasingly limited in the garages. Amenities were simple, corridors were heavily congested, and by the 1980s, the cars and teams had outgrown the aging facility. \n\nDespite their lack of modern amenities, the garages had a nostalgic quaintness admired by participants and fans, and they also served important intrinsic purposes for the teams. For many years, the entry fee for the Indianapolis 500 provided a garage stall to the competitors not just for the month of May, but for the entire offseason as well. It was a valuable asset to some teams, especially small-budget teams without a large race shop. Even larger, more established teams still might use the garage stall for storage or as a staging location for cross-country trips to other races.\n\nFollowing the 1985 race, the original Gasoline Alley garage area was torn down and replaced with a state-of-the-art, multimillion dollar garage complex. The nickname \"Gasoline Alley\" remained when the new complex opened in 1986. In 2000, an additional row of garages was constructed alongside the pit lane on the main stretch, in preparations for the U.S. Grand Prix. Although the pitside garages are used during the Brickyard 400 for NASCAR inspection and top Cup Series teams (lower teams and the Xfinity Series teams use Gasoline Alley), they are specifically not considered part of Gasoline Alley.\n\nThe infield of the track in the vicinity of turn one was known as the \"Snake Pit.\" Long known for a reputation of rowdiness, heavy alcohol consumption, bikers, streaking, flashing, and an overall Woodstock/Mardi Gras-esque atmosphere, the Snake Pit was a popular location for college-age fans to spend time at the track, many of whom had little or no interest in the actual racing activities. Like the infield at the Kentucky Derby, the Snake Pit was often considered a rite of spring, and an excuse to party with abandon. Arrests for public intoxication, disorderly conduct, fights, and drug possession were frequent and common.\n\nIn periods of rain, the area usually became overwhelmed with mud, and mud wrestling was commonly observed. Bonfires and burned cars were also noted.\n\nIn 1980, a fatality occurred in the area after a Jeep flipped over. Around that time, track management decided to take steps to curtail the revelry. For the 1981 race, bleachers were erected in the turn one infield. In addition, capital improvements that included the new Gasoline Alley, a place for competitors to park motor homes, new support buildings, new restroom buildings, and other changes to the site, gradually and deliberately scaled back the size of the area. As a result, for the better part of the 1980s, the patrons migrated to the infield of turn four, and the less-intense Snake Pit II emerged. By the 1990s, the intensity of the rowdiness had dropped substantially, due largely to third-generation management at the Speedway (Tony George) and beefed up law enforcement. By the end of the 20th century, it almost disappeared completely.\n\nThe turn four infield was razed in 1999 to make room for the infield road course. The race day party scene migrated again, this time to its current location, the turn three infield. The Snake Pit eventually became more of a festive party zone. Later, the original turn one location was also razed to make room for road course modifications, a section sometimes referred to as the \"Snake Pit\" section. In 2010, the turn three infield was officially named the [New] Snake Pit, and began to be organized and officially marketed by management. On race day, a concert stage is erected, and popular music acts, and DJ's perform to entertain the infield crowd in a controlled and festive environment. While rock music typically headlines the Carb Day concert, and country music headlines the Legends Day concert, EDM is featured at the Snake Pit. In the mid-2010s, the revelry in the Snake Pit has somewhat re-intensified, however, not to the levels witnessed in the 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nSnake Pit concerts (race day)\n\nSimilar to the aforementioned \"Snake Pit,\" the Coke Lot which is located outside the track, is the most noteworthy and popular camping location on the grounds of the Speedway. Officially designated Lot 1C, it has been nicknamed the \"Coke Lot\" for decades due to the presence of a Coca-Cola bottling plant located on an adjacent property.\n\nThe lot is an open field situated just to the northwest of the track, outside of turn 4 of the oval, off of Georgetown Road. Long known for intense revelry and all-night partying (particularly on the night before the race), the Coke Lot is a festive area and party scene for RVs and campers, as well as tent campers. The lot typically opens a few days before the race and allows fans to stay through the entire race weekend.\n\nWhile the Coke Lot is the most notorious camping area, several other camping lots are also situated around the vicinity of the Speedway, some focusing on family-friendly environments, while others are considered premium lot for high-end RV'ers.\n\nIn years past, another camping area called the \"North 40\" (named due to its size of approximately 40 acres) was another scene of intense overnight revelry. In the 1970s, its revelry surpassed that of the Coke Lot. Located directly north of the track off of 30th Street, in close proximity to the Speedway's golf course, and backed up against a neighborhood of homes, it is no longer used for camping. Currently it is only utilized for daytime car parking, and employee parking. During its peak, security had to begin using giant searchlights to keep North 40 campers from illegally wandering onto the golf course property late into the night.\n\nA traditional food of choice at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway is the pork tenderloin sandwich. The sandwich is a well-known midwestern creation, and is sold at the track concessions.\n\nBeer (largely domestic) is consumed in considerable amounts at the track. Unlike most sports stadiums and arenas, at Indianapolis (and most speedways), spectators are allowed to bring their own alcoholic beverages into the track for consumption. Beer is also sold at concessions. Glass bottles, however, are strictly prohibited at the track. Broken glass is considered an extreme hazard to the race cars (cut tires) on the track.\n\nPeanuts are considered bad luck. An ambiguous, long-standing superstition against eating peanuts at the race track has dominated Indianapolis dating back to at least the 1940s. Legend says, though unconfirmed, that a crashed car was found with peanut shells in the cockpit. As of 2009, however, peanuts are sold at trackside concessions, and the myth has lost a lot of its following.\n\nFrom the mid-1960s until her death in 1975, Mary Catherine \"Mom\" Unser (mother of Jerry, Bobby, and Al) was a well-known fixture at the race. She became famous for her spicy chili. Each year, she would treat the participants to a cook-out in the garage area.\n\nSeveral local restaurants, both current and former, have been popular gathering places for participants and fans during the month of May. Establishments include St. Elmo Steak House, Charlie Brown's Pancake and Steak House, Mug-n-Bun Drive-in Restaurant, and Long's Bakery. The aforementioned Tom Bealle's diner was a fixture of the garage area for many years. Redevelopment of Main Street in Speedway has created a area of popular establishments and nightlife, including Sarah Fisher's 1911 Grill, and A. J. Foyt's Foyt Wine Vault. A White Castle used to stand across the street from the track, as did a Steak 'n Shake, but both have since been demolished. From the 1930s to the 1960s, Mate's White Front Tavern was a popular hangout for drivers and crews. Located just a few blocks east of the Speedway, it was sold to new management in the early 1960s, and was kept open until the mid-1980s. A Taco Bell just east of the Speedway has gained subtle notoriety with fans after Indy drivers Scott Dixon and Dario Franchitti were mugged in the parking lot in 2017.\n\nNumerous superstitions have developed at the Indianapolis 500 over the years. Most date back many decades, although some have lost a considerable amount of following. Among the prevailing superstitions in the modern day include the ongoing \"Andretti curse\" and \"Curse of the Smiths\" (see below).\n\nOlder superstitions that have been popular at Indianapolis include some of the following:\n\nAmong the over who have participated in the Indy 500, none have had the last name Smith, the most common surname in the United States. Several Smiths have attempted to make the race, the last being Mark Smith who failed to qualify in 1993 and 1994, despite finishing 5th at the Michigan Superspeedway in a 1994 CART race. By contrast there have been eight different drivers with the last name Jones, and four with the last name Johnson.\n\nOnly two drivers with the surname Smith have ever competed in professional races at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, albeit in different events. Regan Smith drove in the Brickyard 400 from 2008 to 2013 (with a best finish of 3rd in 2011). He also has competed in the Lilly Diabetes 250. Motorcyclist Bradley Smith competed in the Red Bull Indianapolis GP, with best finish of second in 2009.\n\nA German language translation of Smith has participated, with Sam Schmidt making three starts.\n\nA longstanding legend at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway involves bunny rabbits. From 1911-1993, there was only one race held annually at the Speedway. Activity outside the month of May was limited to semioccasional tire testing. Thus for eleven months out of the year, the grounds were noticeably quiet, green and lush, particularly after nine holes of a golf course were built in the spacious infield in 1929. The well-manicured grounds naturally became a home for fauna, particularly rabbits and other small vermin. As the race participants would arrive in the spring, they would often be greeted by numerous rabbits roaming the grounds, oftentimes running out on the track. The rabbits were thought to be welcome and some considered them symbols of good luck. However, they were sometimes a nuisance, causing yellows for running out on the track and evading capture. Al Unser, Sr. famously ran over a rabbit during the 1988 race. The well-known presence of rabbits at the Speedway even began a tradition that a rabbit would appear somewhere in the race program each year.\n\n\nThe pre-race ceremonies usually go in the following order:\n\nIn some years, a grand marshal has been named for the race. The duties of the grand marshal may include greeting drivers and dignitaries during pre-race ceremonies, delivering the \"drivers to your cars\" message, and riding in the pace car. This person may or may not be the same grand marshal as the 500 Festival Parade. Unlike other races, the grand marshal will not give the starting command.\n\n\"The Star-Spangled Banner\" has been performed before the start of the Indy 500 in most years. Up through the 1970s and early 1980s, the song was typically played by the Purdue All-American Marching Band without a vocalist. However, in some rare occasions, a vocalist was used. In 1976, Tom Sullivan and Up with People were invited to sing, as a gesture to the U.S. Bicentennial.\n\nBy the mid-1980s, the Speedway began inviting notable artists to perform the national anthem. In nearly all cases, they would be backed by the Purdue Band. In 1983, James A. Hubert flubbed the lyrics. He omitted the line \"O'er the ramparts we watched, were so gallantly streaming?\" and instead repeated the second line \"What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming\", stumbling on the word \"twilight\" the second time around.\n\nAfter the national anthem is performed, the public address announcer or the grand marshal gives the command \"Drivers, to your cars!\"\n\nIn 2001, Steven Tyler of Aerosmith caused a controversy after he changed the lyrics of the song. Recent performers include:\n\n\nIn most years since 1991, the songs \"America the Beautiful\" and/or \"God Bless America\" have been performed. Florence Henderson, a native Hoosier, was a friend of the Hulman-George family that owns the Speedway. Henderson performed one of the two songs numerous times, book-ending years when she performed the national anthem instead. Her performances were usually not televised.\n\nThe performance of \"America the Beautiful\" was introduced for the race's 75th anniversary running in 1991, in part due to Operation Desert Storm. Henderson switched to the national anthem for 1993–1997, then resumed \"America the Beautiful\" in 1999. In 2003, her performance was switched to \"God Bless America,\" which became more popular in the post-9/11 era. She continued through 2015, then served as grand marshal for her final race in 2016. Henderson died six months after the 2016 race. Henderson routinely sang the entire song, including the prologue, and in some years sang the chorus a second time.\n\nBy 2009, \"America the Beautiful\" was re-added to the ceremonies, with a different artist each year. In 1999, Lee Greenwood did a special performance of \"God Bless the USA\", and in 2003, Darryl Worley performed \"Have You Forgotten?\". In 2005, 3 Doors Down did a special performance of \"Kryptonite\" from the Pagoda, as part of the driver introductions.\n\n\n\nStarting in 1974, the Indy 500 was moved to the Sunday of Memorial Day weekend. As a gesture, the Speedway added an invocation to the pre-race ceremonies. In most years since 1980, the Speedway has invited a representative of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Indianapolis. In selected years, others have been invited including nationally famous clergymen Oral Roberts and Billy Graham.\n\nThe Most Reverend Archbishop Edward T. O'Meara participated several times until his death in early 1992. Archbishop Daniel M. Buechlein then took over as the traditional clergy starting in 1993. Buechlein customarily ended his invocation with the word \"Godspeed\" in the languages of all of the participating drivers. Buechlein's final year at the race was 2009, and he died in 2018 after a lengthy illness.\n\n\nIn remembrance of Memorial Day, \"Taps\" is played, and a U.S. military aircraft does a fly-by. In some years, multiple aircraft participate, executing the missing man formation. Traditionally, a member of the public address announcing team recited a preamble honoring those who have died in combat, and those who have perished in automobile racing. The preamble dated back to at least 1965. Jim Philippe recited the preamble until he died in 2003. Dave Calabro said it in 2006, and Jerry Baker reprised it in 2012. Since 2000, a notable military or government official has also offered a tribute or remarks.\n\nThe traditional preamble goes as follows:\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, \"Taps\" was typically performed by a combined U.S. Armed Forces color guard. Then from the about 1980 through 2005, it was usually played by the full Purdue Band. In 1986 and 1997, due to rain delays, the Purdue Band was unable to stay for the pre-race ceremonies. In those years, a substitute performer(s) was used. Since 2006, \"Taps\" has been rendered as a trumpet solo. In 2016, the trumpeter moved from the trackside victory podium near the pits to the starter's stand outside the main stretch.\n\nRendering of \"Taps\"\n\nRemarks\n\n\n\nThe most traditional performance is the singing of \"Back Home Again in Indiana\". This tradition has accompanied the race since 1946. Jim Nabors, accompanied by the Purdue Marching Band, notably performed the song in most years from 1972 to 2014. The song has long been the last event in the order of the day, immediately preceding the command to start engines.\n\nDuring the song, thousands of multicolored balloons are released from an infield tent. The balloon release also dates back to 1946, but initially it did not coincide with the song.\n\nThe song, which was first published in 1917, is reported to have been first played at the race in 1919. A track side brass band played the song as Indiana-born Howdy Wilcox was finishing the final laps to victory.\n\nIn 1997, the race was rained out on Sunday, and the start was rescheduled for Monday. Nabors (as well as the Purdue band), had left the grounds by Monday morning. Rather than find a last-minute replacement, Nabors suggested that the Speedway utilize a recording of one of his previous performances. The Speedway replayed his 1993 rendition, and it was well-received by the fans. Two days before the 2007 race, Nabors canceled his appearance due to an illness. On race morning, Nabors recorded a special video greeting to the fans from his Hawaii home, which was streamed over the Internet. Fans were invited to sing along with the Purdue band, and a \"get well soon\" message was displayed for Nabors. In 2008, Nabors made a well-received return, and received a standing ovation at the public driver meeting.\n\nNabors again missed the race in 2012 due to an illness. This time, the Speedway sent a television crew to his home in Maui, and recorded a performance that was played on the video boards on race morning. In March 2014, Nabors announced that the 2014 race would be his final performance. In 2017, Jim Cornelison was invited to sing, and his performance was critically praised. He was invited to return in 2018.\n\n\nThe call for the engines to start has been traditionally made by stating \"Gentlemen, start your engines!\" When female drivers have competed, the call has been amended to \"Lady and gentlemen...\" or \"Ladies and gentlemen, start your engines.\" Beginning in 2017, the command has been recited as \"Drivers, start your engines.\" The starting command is customarily recited by a ranking member of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway board of directors, who also is a member of the Hulman-George family.\n\nThe exact origin of the phrase is unclear, and there have been several conflicting accounts of who was the first to recite it, and what the exact wording of it was. Prior to World War II, it was commonplace for an aerial bomb to signal the start of the engines. Seth Kline was the official starter of the \"500\" in 1925–1926 & 1934–1953. Kline is thought to have made an informal \"Gentlemen, start your motors!\" command as early as 1948 to accompany the bomb. The first documented case was in 1950, and that was recited by prolific public address announcer John Francis \"Irish\" Horan. Kline was again reported as saying it in 1951, (though some report it was Horan) Either Kline or Horan said it again in 1952. It was around that time the command was changed from \"...motors!\" to \"...engines!\" The participants and officials alike, preferred the more technical term \"engines\" to describe their machines. Sid Collins stated that chief steward Harlan Fengler explained to him \"there are no motors in the race, just engines.\"\n\nWilbur Shaw, president of the Speedway in 1946–1954, was once believed to be the person who coined the phrase, and it was erroneously claimed in his autobiography that he recited it in all the post-World War II years until his death. Speedway historian Donald Davidson, however, believes Shaw only recited it twice, in 1953 and 1954.\n\nAfter Shaw's death, Tony Hulman started reciting the command, and made it popular and famous. The normally soft-spoken and shy Hulman had a proud and vociferous version of the command annually. Hulman would rehearse the line, perfecting it for show, and was even known to work with radio broadcaster Luke Walton to draft cue cards to know when to stress certain words and syllables. After Hulman's death in 1977, his widow Mary F. Hulman took over the honor, followed by their daughter Mari George.\n\nIn 1977, Janet Guthrie became the first female driver to qualify for the Indy 500. Controversy surrounded the command, because the Speedway management did not want to alter the traditional phrase. During the week before the race, the management announced that they would not change the wording of the command. Looking for an excuse, they insisted that the cars were actually started by male crew members with an electric hand-held starter from behind the car. Guthrie and her crew were quite displeased by the stubbornness of the Speedway management, considering her unprecedented accomplishment. The crew reacted by assigning Kay Bignotti (wife of George Bignotti) as the crew member to operate the inertial starter at the back of Guthrie's car. The Speedway's argument fell apart, and they decided upon a special amended command for that year. They did not announce beforehand what the special command would be, and Hulman's highly anticipated phrase was the following:\n\nIn 1978–1979, when Guthrie again qualified for the race, the command was simply amended to \"Lady and gentlemen, start your engines.\" In 1992, Lyn St. James became the second female to qualify for the race. She publicly requested, albeit not contentiously, that the command be changed to \"Drivers, start your engines.\" The request was dismissed, and the command used was the now customary \"Lady and gentlemen...\" variation. That variation, along with \"Ladies and gentlemen...\" were used many times over the next two decades. In 2017, Pippa Mann was the lone female driver in the field, and Tony George gave the command as \"Drivers, start your engines.\" This was the first time that this variation of the command was used for the race.\n\nFor many years, the traditional location for giving the command was at the pace car in the front of the starting grid. Public address announcer Jim Philippe normally introduced the command, describing it as the \"traditional command\" or the \"famous four words.\" Phillippe's final \"500\" was 2003. Likewise, for many years through 1989, Luke Walton traditionally introduced the command on the radio network broadcast. Since 2004, current public address announcer Dave Calabro introduces the command normally by calling it the \"most famous words in motorsports.\"\n\nIn most cases, Tony Hulman would give the command, then ride in the pace car during the pace laps. Mary F. Hulman would give the command near the pace car, but rarely rode in the pace car due to her age and declining health. Eventually, the location was moved to near the start/finish line, and in 2001, it was moved to the new Victory Podium stage adjacent to the Pagoda. In 2011 only, Mari George moved back to the front of the starting grid to give the command, and then she rode in the pace car with A. J. Foyt. In 2014, as a special gesture to Jim Nabors's final performance at Indy, the starting command was given in unison by both Mari George and Nabors, marking the first time a non-member of the Hulman-George family had given the command for the 500 since 1954. In 2016 for the 100th Indianapolis 500, now-matriarch Mari was joined by three subsequent generations of the Hulman-George family, who gave the command together. Due to her advanced age, the 2016 race would be Mari's final turn giving the command. Later that same year, Tony George gave the starting command for the Brickyard 400, his first time giving a command since a restart command in 1986. For the 2017 Indianapolis 500, the duty was permanently assigned to Tony George. In that year, Tony George began using the phrase \"Drivers, start your engines\" instead of the more familiar \"Lady and gentlemen...\" variation.\n\nOn occasions when an accident or rain has halted the race, a second command has typically been given. Years include: 1967, 1973, 1982, 1986, 1997, 2004, 2007. The amended command, \"gentlemen, re-start your engines,\" has usually been used. In 1986, this restart command was given by Tony George. In 1997, it was given by Mari Hulman George. In 1982 and 2004 the command was given by public address announcer Tom Carnegie.\n\nIn 1981, Mary F. Hulman was unable to recite the starting command due to an illness. In that year, Mari George recited, her first time performing the honor.\n\nOver the years, the starting command has been adopted to start all sorts of auto racing in the United States, including but not limited to NASCAR. However, in many venues outside of Indy, the phrase \"Drivers, start your engines\" appears to be the preferred version.\n\nA recently-added tradition is the use of an honorary starter. A special guest has been invited in recent years to wave the green flag to start the race. Starting in 2013, the tradition was expanded where another celebrity or special guest(s) arrives on race morning by helicopter to ceremoniously deliver the green flag or the checkered flag. The official starter (or \"flagman\"), however, is a trained race official, and handles the remainder of the flagging duties during the race. In 2010, due to two early caution periods, honorary starter Jack Nicholson elected to stay in the starter's perch for an additional few minutes, and was able to drop the green for the two subsequent restarts as well.\n\nSince the early years of the race, celebrities from all walks of fame have been invited to the race, some have returned for many years or even decades. Television and movie stars, recording artists, sports figures, politicians, and military, are among the many dignitaries invited. During the pre-race, a parade of stars is conducted around the track, usually in convertibles. In numerous years, celebrities have been invited to drive the pace car at the start of the race.\nClark Gable is seen in a famous photograph of the 1947 race. Among the many celebrities who attended or have attended multiple Indy 500s include Jim Nabors, James Garner (who drove the pace car in 1975, 1977 and 1985), David Letterman, Tim Allen, Florence Henderson, Linda Vaughn, and many others. Paul Newman, who starred in the Indy-related film \"Winning\", attended the race many times, and in 1983–1995, and then again in 2008, was at the race as co-owner of Newman/Haas Racing. Joyce DeWitt, who grew up in the Town of Speedway, and graduated from Speedway Senior High School, once worked at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway ticket office.\n\nAt least three former U.S. Presidents (and one future President) has attended the Indianapolis 500. Gerald Ford attended the 1979 race, serving also as the grand marshal of the 500 Festival Parade. Both George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton attended the 2003 race, the first time in Indy history that two former presidents were at the same race. It was the elder Bush's second visit to the Speedway; he previously presided over the opening ceremonies of the 1987 Pan American Games, which was held at the track. Future President Donald Trump attended the race in 2002. Trump was selected to drive the pace car for the 2011 race, but withdrew the duty after drawing controversy from fans. In 1971, tentative plans were made for sitting president Richard Nixon to attend the race, as part of the NATO Conference on Urban Affairs that was being held in the city. Nixon was even rumored to be giving the starting command. Nixon would have been the first, and only to-date, sitting president to attend the race. However, the visit was later cancelled.\n\nAt least two presidential candidates have visited the Speedway during their respective election campaigns, owning much to the fact that the Indiana primary is usually held May. Ronald Reagan visited the track during the month of May 1976, while he was in town campaigning for the 1976 Indiana Republican primary. Likewise, Hillary Clinton visited the track while campaigning for the 2008 Indiana primary and met with driver Sarah Fisher.\n\nAt least three former vice presidents have attended the race. The aforementioned Gerald Ford, George H. W. Bush, and Indiana native Dan Quayle. Qualye has attended the race numerous times, including three times as sitting Vice President (1989–1991). Current Vice President Mike Pence has reportedly attended the race over 30 times, most recently in 2016, while he was the sitting Governor of Indiana and again in 2017 while he was sitting Vice President. In 2018, Pence visited the track during practice, but not on race day.\n\nDavid Letterman worked as a reporter for ABC Sports during the 1971 race, and attended the race many times as a spectator. Since 2002, he has attended the race as co-owner of Rahal Letterman Racing. The team won the race in 2004 with driver Buddy Rice. At the 2015 race, Letterman was honored on the famous scoring pylon during the pre-race; just four days after he retired from the \"Late Show\".\n\nDuring the 1960s and early 1970s, several NASA astronauts from the Mercury and Apollo programs were among invited guests.\n\n\n\nImmediately after taking the checkered flag, the race winner drives to Victory Lane. The celebration to honor the winner begins with the car being wheeled onto a black and white checkered periphery. The driver is presented with the Borg-Warner Trophy, which is situated behind the car in a prominent location. A floral wreath is placed around the winners neck, and the winner is presented with the traditional bottle of milk for refreshment. Interviews are taken for television, radio, and over the public address system. The driver's crew and team owner(s) also are invited to celebrate in victory lane, and are joined by numerous dignitaries, including the 500 Festival Queen and Princesses court, track and series personalities, celebrities, and various sponsor representatives. The Indianapolis 500 notably does not utilize a podium for the top-three finishers as is customary in other forms of racing, as well as at most other IndyCar events. Only the winning driver and team participate in victory lane celebrations, believed to be an homage to horse racing's Winner's Circle.\n\nIn the early years, victory lane was located at the far south end of the pit area, near the entrance to Turn One. For many years, it was identified by a large black and white checkered carpet. This location was used through 1970. In 1971, victory lane was moved to the horseshoe area located in front of the Master Control Tower. The car would be rolled up two checkered ramps, to a raised platform a few feet above the ground. In 1986, a new victory lane was constructed, which was a hydraulic lift in the pit lane. In 1994, after the pit lane was reconstructed, victory lane was moved back to the horseshoe area, this time on a large cylindrical platform.\n\nThe current victory lane is located beneath the Victory Podium stage, adjacent to the Pagoda. The podium, which was originally built for the U.S. Grand Prix to serve as a 1st-2nd-3rd podium for that event, is not used as a podium for the Indy 500 or for the Brickyard 400. Instead it is utilized as a stage for pre-race ceremonies.\n\nA long-standing tradition of the Indianapolis 500 is for the winner to drink a bottle of milk immediately after the race. This tradition dates back to 1936 after victor Louis Meyer asked for a glass of buttermilk, something his mother had encouraged him to drink on hot days. Meyer also reportedly drank milk after his victory in 1933, as did a few others in the immediate years afterward. The young tradition quickly went away, and for a time after World War II, was replaced by \"Water From Wilbur\" – a silver jug (resembling an ice bucket) filled with icy-cold water, presented by then-Speedway president, and three-time former winner Wilbur Shaw.\n\nBy 1956, the milk returned as a ritual as milk companies became sponsors of the race purse and handed a bottle of milk to the winner to promote their product. A sponsorship of currently $10,000 now paid out by the American Dairy Association if the winner sips the milk in victory lane. In 1993, Emerson Fittipaldi drank orange juice instead of milk after his victory. The snub drew considerable ire from fans. Later he took a sip of milk, at the urging of his car owner Roger Penske. Fittipaldi owned citrus farms in Brazil, and wished to promote his industry. As a result, he was booed in driver's introductions the following week by the crowd in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the heart of \"America's Dairyland.\" In 1981, Bobby Unser also did not drink the milk in victory lane. After Unser was tentatively stripped of his victory, Mario Andretti sipped from a bottle of milk the next morning during the traditional photo shoot.\n\nA bas-relief sculpture of the winner's face, along with his name, average speed, and date of victory is added to the Borg-Warner Trophy. The trophy has been in use since 1936. A smaller replica of this trophy has been officially presented to the winner after the race since 1988 and team principal since 1997, usually in a press conference either at the Speedway or in Detroit at the North American International Auto Show at the BorgWarner exhibit, except for the 2011 race because of extenuating circumstances (the winning driver had died in a crash at an aborted INDYCAR race; the winning team principal and the driver's widow were presented with the respective trophies in the ensuing January). Prior to that, winners received a replica mounted on a chestnut plaque.\n\n\n\nFor many years, the results of the race were considered unofficial until the following day. Immediately after the race, the sanctioning body would begin reviewing the scoring serials, as well as examine video tapes and film, in order to confirm the results, correct scoring errors, make judgements on rules infractions, and assess penalties (or rescind penalties) if necessary. It was not unusual for the vetting process to go late into the evening, beyond midnight, and into the early hours of the next morning. Traditionally, USAC would post the official results at 8 a.m. local time the morning after the race. Revisions were not unusual, as assessed penalties and scoring corrections would be announced in the official standings. However, most corrections were relatively minor, and seldom did drivers lose or gain positions in the final standings. A brief protest period would open for the teams to formally submit complaints, and if there were no protests, the official results would stand as published.\n\nThis policy was often a source of controversy, as in earlier years, this made officials apt to document rules infractions as they occurred, but not assess penalties until \"after\" the race – rather than during the race. Drivers and teams were sometimes not made fully aware of rules infractions until after they were issued a penalty the next morning. This prevented teams from being able to strategize and make up the penalty deficits during the race itself. In some cases, the penalty dropped them one or more positions in the final standings. By the early to mid-1990s, in-race penalties became the preferred method of assessment, namely the stop & go penalty, and currently the drive-through penalty.\n\nThe most famous instances of protest occurred in 1981 and 2002.\n\nStarting in 1990, a new electronic scoring system was implemented, simplifying the scoring process. In that year, officials were done compiling the official standings very early Sunday evening, but still withheld the official release until 8 a.m. the next day. By 1993, the rules were amended such that the official standings would be released approximately six hours following the conclusion of the race (rather than the next morning). This was largely because computer and GPS-based scoring systems had automated the process, and barring any equipment malfunctions (as happened at Texas in 1997), serial scoring errors were almost non-existent; and significantly more accurate and reliable than previous hand-scoring methods. Manually-assessed penalties (such as one-lap penalties assessed for violations that occurred very late in the race) are occasionally a focus of post-race analysis and scoring revision, as those penalties are typically unable to be served before the race concludes.\n\nIn the days leading up the race, numerous other related and unrelated events are held in and around Indianapolis.\n\n\nAs of 2017, the four racing events are held over four consecutive nights, leading up to the Indy 500 on Sunday. The Hulman Classic is typically Wednesday night, the Hoosier Hundred Thursday night, the Carb Night Classic Friday night, and the Little 500 on Saturday night.\n"}
{"id": "672915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672915", "title": "Indoor cycling", "text": "Indoor cycling\n\nIndoor cycling, often also called spinning, as an organized activity, is a form of exercise with classes focusing on endurance, strength, intervals, high intensity (race days) and recovery, and involves using a special stationary exercise bicycle with a weighted flywheel in a classroom setting.\n\nClasses generally use specialized stationary bicycles. Features include a mechanical device to modify the difficulty of pedalling, specially shaped handlebars, and multiple adjustment points to fit the bicycle to a range of riders. Many have a weighted flywheel, which simulates the effects of inertia and momentum when riding a real bicycle. The pedals are equipped with toe clips as on sports bicycles to allow one foot to pull up when the other is pushing down. They may alternatively have clipless receptacles for use with cleated cycling shoes. Padded shorts aid comfort and avoid the chafing caused by the sewn seams in underwear.\n\nIf the exercise is not done correctly or the rider's position is bad, injuries can occur; problems with the lower back and knees are most common. To avoid injury and aid comfort it is important to make sure the bio-mechanical position of the rider is correct. Group cycling bikes have a wide range of adjustment, and it is essential to obtain the correct setup prior to riding. The seat position must be right for the participant's height. The height of the seat should be in level with the hip when the participant is standing next to the cycle. Horizontally, the seat should be set in order for the front of the knee to be directly in vertical line with the ball of the foot when the pedal is pointing forward. This results in a position where the knee is slightly bent at an angle between 25% and 35% when the leg is extended with the foot resting flat at the bottom of the pedal stroke. Handlebar height can be adjusted for comfort; less experienced riders may want to set them higher to ease lower back discomfort. A reasonable reference point is to set it in level with the seat.\nA typical class involves a single instructor at the front of the class who leads the participants through routines that are designed to simulate terrain and situations similar to riding a bike outdoors. Some of the movements and positions include hill climbs, sprints and interval training. A well-trained instructor uses music, motivation, visualization and enthusiastic coaching to lead students through a ride that best suits their fitness level and goals. Most instructors will lead what is called an interval ride, where students will sprint, run, climb, and jump all in the same ride, but there will not be definable pattern to the exercises. In the early 2000s, \"terrain-based\" classes that simulate outdoor conditions (e.g., wind resistance) were introduced. Terrain-based classes are designed to improve a rider's outdoor skill set and increase endurance while providing an intense cardio-based workout.\n\nParticipants set goals based on their heart rate, which can be measured by hand or using a heart rate monitor and ride simulated variations in terrain by altering resistance and cadence. Some participants choose to maintain a moderate, aerobic intensity level, with a heart rate of between 50 and 85% of max while others drive their heart rates higher in intervals of anaerobic activity to levels of between 85 and 92%.\n\nOne of the major advantages of indoor cycling is that each participant can exactly control his/her level of intensity to suit ability or fitness level but still remain as a group together. The classes can therefore be heterogeneous. As an alternative, participants can judge their level of exertion relative to a perceived exertion scale. The instructor should advise a recommended exertion scale from 1 (no exertion at all) to 10 (maximum exertion). Each rider is permitted to dictate how hard he/she chooses to work with the instructor providing active and dynamic encouragement together with technical and practical advice throughout the class.\n\nBesides burning (on average) between 300-500 kcal in 60 minutes, indoor cycling also strengthens the muscles of the lower body. It tones the quadriceps and hamstrings, along with working the back and hips. It can be difficult to stay at the moderate level in a class that is geared towards more intensity. The difficulty of the workout is modulated in two ways:\n\n\nThere are five core movements in the Spinning programme.\n\nThese five movements each work a different part of the body and focus on different leg muscle groups. The rider should always maintain control of the flywheel by having resistance applied and remaining below a cadence of 110 RPM. Not all bikes have a freewheel, or 'smart release', and it is possible that the flywheel will 'run away' with the rider with the potential for causing injury. The rider should be able to maintain perfectly even pedal rotations at high resistance. This becomes difficult below 60 RPM cadence and failing to make 'perfect circles' increases the risk of knee and hip injury. A road cyclist will normally have a natural pedal cadence, of about 85 RPM and will control changes in terrain by changing gear to maintain this rate. The goal of the spinning programme is not to exceed this natural rate by more than 25 RPM higher (110 RPM) or lower (60 RPM)\nThere are five further advanced movements based on those listed above.\n\nMost indoor cycling classes are coached with music. Riders may synchronize their pedalling to be in time with the rhythm of the music, thus providing an external stimulus to encourage a certain tempo. Often, the music chosen by the instructor is dance music or rock music set to a dance beat (i.e. 4/4 time), but not necessarily. This tends to help motivate participants to work harder than they might otherwise. The instructor also may choose specific songs for sprints, climbs, and jumps. While the music provides a tempo cue, the cadence does not need to be a multiple of the beat in order for the rider to feel in rhythm; the music therefore helps a rider maintain any constant cadence, not just a cadence that matches the beat. It may depend on the level of exertion whether or not someone changes position or the instructor can tell the class to change.\n\nA variation known as \"aqua cycling\" or \"hydrospinning\" also exists. In this, the stationary bicycles are underwater in a pool.\n\n"}
{"id": "58377620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58377620", "title": "Kamila Bobr", "text": "Kamila Bobr\n\nKamila Bobr (born 7 May 1997) is a Belarusian sprint canoeist.\n\nShe participated at the 2018 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships.\n"}
{"id": "52715112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52715112", "title": "Kinesiological stretching", "text": "Kinesiological stretching\n\nKinesiological Stretching is a type of neuromuscular physical exercise meant for stretching a particular muscle. Named after Kinesiology, this technique is used to get more flexibility, range of motion and strength at the same time with the view of attaining new range of flexibility functional and applicable to leg lifts, kicks, split jumps, dance, gymnastic, yoga, cheerleading, ballet, martial art techniques etc. This neuromuscular technique is widely used to minimize the risk of muscle injuries during stretching done to attain muscle flexibility.\n\nKinesiological stretching isolates muscles' actions one by one. It concentrates mainly on the muscles which are tighter than the others. This stretching method goes deeper and also helps in acquiring flexibility and strength faster than other methods of stretching.\n\nThe basic use of this technique is to train and stretch a particular muscle, whereas the traditional methods like dynamic stretching, static stretching, PNF stretching etc. are mostly concerned with more than just one muscle simultaneously.\n\nKinesiological stretching is used to train particular muscles to attain motion beyond the normal range. Generally there are various limiting factors for different muscles to attain a range of motion beyond the normal range, and these limiting factors are known as passive limiting factors. Kinesiological stretching eliminates these passive limiting factors.\n\nKinesiological stretching is used to avoid the stretch reflex, while increasing the range of motion of a specific muscle. This is strikingly different from previously known stretching techniques, which look to increase the ROM (or Range of motion) in a specific degree of freedom of a joint or group of joints. The stretching method is also used in the treatment of abnormal scapulothoracic joint combined with the patient's awareness of his/her postural faults.\n\nJust like other types of stretching exercises, Kinesiological stretching can lead to injuries especially when performed in a hurry. Engaging in the stretching method without completing the required motion properly can lead to muscle strains or tears.\n\n"}
{"id": "58126743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58126743", "title": "Kosmos Holding", "text": "Kosmos Holding\n\nKosmos Global Holding S.L., also known as Kosmos Holding or Kosmos, is a global sports and media investment group headquartered in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nFounded in 2017 by FC Barcelona and Spanish national football team player Gerard Piqué, the company is backed by Hiroshi Mikitani, chairman and CEO of Rakuten. The other founders of Kosmos are Edmund Chu, Nullah Sarker, and Michael Evans.\n\nOn February 26, 2018, Kosmos announced plans to invest $3 billion over 25 years in the Davis Cup by BNP Paribas. Kosmos will partner with the International Tennis Federation to transform the tournament. On August 6, 2018, Larry Ellison published a letter announcing that he will be joining Kosmos as an investor.\n\nKosmos partnership with the International Tennis Federation to revamp the Davis Cup has been criticized by the tennis community. Many claim that the partnership will take away from the traditions of the 118-year-old tennis event. In a secret meeting held in Orlando, Florida, on August 16, 2018, the changes proposed by Kosmos received a 71 percent approval at the International Tennis Federation annual general meeting. Proposals require a two-thirds majority to pass. While France and USA voice strong support for the changes and voted in favor of the move, others, such as Australia, were against the new format.\n\nAfter the vote, French player Nicolas Mahut tweeted, \"The Davis Cup died, and a part of the history of our sport flew away for a handful of dollars\". Other players on the circuit including Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray, and Rafael Nadal have publicly supported the new idea. Lleyton Hewitt of Australia strongly opposes the new initiative as an erosion of the 100-year-old tradition of the Davis Cup.\n"}
{"id": "3524933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3524933", "title": "Latex clothing", "text": "Latex clothing\n\nLatex rubber is used in many types of clothing. Rubber has traditionally been used in protective clothing, including gas masks and Wellington boots. Rubber is now generally being replaced in these application by plastics. Mackintoshes have traditionally been made from rubberized cloth. \n\nLatex rubber as a clothing material is common in fetish fashion and among BDSM practitioners, and is often seen worn at fetish clubs. Latex is sometimes also used by couturiers for its dramatic appearance. Latex clothing tends to be skin-tight. There are several magazines dedicated to the use and wearing of it. Less commonly, latex clothing can be loose-fitting.\n\nThere are a handful of companies around the world which manufacture latex rated as suitable for contact with human skin. These firms supply sheet (in the vast majority) to a larger number of smaller fashion clothing companies. In the past, some marketplaces suffered from de facto monopoly supply conditions, where a sheet supplier could impose restrictive ordering requirements. Only being able to order half-kilometre long batches of sheet in the colour and thickness they wanted, meant that designers and clothing producers often had to co-operate, or face long delays in supplying their customers, if they wanted to be in the rubber clothing business.\n\nSince 2000, however, the sheet market has been exposed to competition from international suppliers courtesy of the Internet. This has produced an explosion in cottage industry scale latex fetish clothing manufacturers.\n\nLatex sheet-based clothing is constructed by a three-stage process. First a pattern for a specific garment is selected, and adjusted carefully to suit the measurements supplied by the customer. Then the sheet latex is cut out on a flat board, by hand: lastly latex glue (generally rubber cement solvent-based adhesives) is used to join seams together. Skilled latex makers can build a stocking, shaped to match the contours of a specific person's leg, made from latex only 0.2 mm thick, in under an hour. It is possible to use water-based glues such as Copydex to make latex clothes; however, the long-term durability of items made this way is somewhat dubious.\n\nLatex moulded clothing is produced by dipping a mould into a vat of liquid rubber. Dealing with raw liquid latex is more difficult because of the extra effort that must be put in to keep the thickness of the latex itself consistent. Because of this, improper molding techniques can lead to inconsistent thickness in the latex, causing it to fail at the weak points faster than items made from sheet latex. This has led to a major stigma against molded latex garments, in favor of sheet latex versions. Unfortunately, this stigma has been detrimental to those few latex providers who have proper mold-making techniques. When done properly, a molded latex garment is just as durable as sheet latex, and it is a preferred method for skilled individuals making items with heavy contours like hoods or gloves. Despite any attempt to use sheet latex to make hoods and gloves, it is impossible to get solid sheets to fit complex contours as well as a molded latex item can. The belief that all sheet latex is superior to all molded latex is completely false, and ultimately it depends on the abilities of the creator, as even poorly made sheet latex can fall apart easily. Sheet latex is the preferred method for items like catsuits, that do not need such perfect form fitting, and are easier to create with sheets compared to the large molds required for body suits.\n\nWhile there is little difference in latex clothing made from liquid latex versus sheet latex in the hands of a skilled artisan, it should be noted liquid latex is cured via air drying while sheet latex is cured by being vulcanized. This does make the two forms slightly different. Due to the difference in curing, liquid latex can be applied to sheet latex clothing to add unique patterns and designs which can be peeled off the sheet latex afterwards.\n\nNeither moulded, nor sheet-based, latex is amenable to large-scale mass production. Skilled manual artistry is an integral part of the process; this means that made-to-measure and special designs are much more accessible to the general buyer, in looking at fetish latex, than is the case with regular textiles.\n\nLatex has been used to make leotards, bodysuits, stockings and gloves, besides other garments. Latex is also often used to make specialist fetishistic garments like hoods and rubber cloaks.\n\nLatex clothing is generally made from large sheets of latex which are delivered in rolls. The \"classic\" colour for fetishistic latex clothing is black, but latex is naturally translucent and may be dyed any colour, including metallic shades or white. It can come in thicknesses which generally range from about 0.18 mm to 0.5 mm. Instead of being sewn, latex clothing is generally glued along its seams.\n\nBecause latex sheet is relatively weak, latex clothing needs special care to avoid tearing. While latex can be repaired using materials similar to those provided in a bicycle repair kit, the result is rarely as attractive as the original appearance of the garment.\n\nLatex clothing is often polished to preserve and improve its shiny appearance. \n\nPutting on latex clothing can be difficult, because latex has high friction against dry skin. To make it easier to put on, wearers often use talc to reduce friction against the skin when putting the clothes on; then, because stray talc is very visible against the rubber, wearers generally polish off any visible talc. Another method of dressing is using lubricant (or 'lube') which provides a slippery surface for the latex to glide over. A third method of reducing or eliminating the high friction of latex when dressing is to chlorinate the rubber. Chlorine in gaseous form is generated by the reaction of hydrochloric acid and sodium hypochlorite. This chlorine bonds to the first few molecules on the surface of the isoprene (latex) and transforms them into neoprene. This process affects metallic colours, but does not affect strength.\n\nLatex may also be painted directly onto the body as latex in liquid form, which is also sometimes used to close seams in the creation of latex clothing. Removal of a painted on liquid latex garment can result in painful hair removal. Wearers avoid this by preparing the skin by prior hair removal, the use of release agents to prevent the latex adhering to the hair, or using products such as orange oil to weaken the latex during removal.\n\nUse of latex clothing has been popularized by media appearances, such as the outfit of Catwoman, a cat burglar, in \"Batman Returns\" or the outfits in The Matrix which are mostly made of latex. \n\nLatex clothing is a popular feature of the BDSM community. Pioneered by prominent dominatrixes such as Saffron Taylor.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "13032210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13032210", "title": "List of English football transfers 2007–08", "text": "List of English football transfers 2007–08\n\nList of English football transfers 2007–08 may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2636385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2636385", "title": "List of female fitness &amp; figure competitors", "text": "List of female fitness &amp; figure competitors\n\nNoted female fitness & figure competitors include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "398336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398336", "title": "List of international sports federations", "text": "List of international sports federations\n\nThis is a list of international sports federations, each of which serves as a non-governmental governing body for a given sport and administers its sport at a world level, most often crafting rules, promoting the sport to prospective spectators and fans, developing prospective players, and organizing world or continental championships. Some international sports federations like the International Swimming Federation and the International Skating Union may oversee multiple activities referred to in common parlance as separate sports: FINA, for example governs swimming, diving, synchronised swimming, and water polo as separate 'disciplines' within the single 'sport' of Aquatics.\n\nInternational sports federations form an integral part of the Olympic and Paralympic movements. Each Olympic sport is represented by its respective international sport federation, which in turn help administer their respective events during the Games. For a sport to become an Olympic sport, its respective international sport federation must be recognized by the International Olympic Committee.\n\nLikewise, an international sports federation must be recognized by the International Paralympic Committee for its sport to become a paralympic sport, though in the latter case, several Paralympic Sports are governed by a dedicated committee of the International Paralympic Committee itself, under the \"World Para\" branding, for example track and field athletics for disabled athletes is governed by the IPC itself, under the name World Para Athletics. Other Paralympic sports are governed within the structure of the able-bodied equivalent: for example, the UCI governs both able-bodied and paralympic cycling.\n\nThe following are recognised by the Association of Summer Olympic International Federations (ASOIF):\n\nThe following are recognized by the Association of International Olympic Winter Sports Federations (AIOWF):\n\nThe following are recognised by the Association of the IOC Recognised International Sports Federations (ARISF):\n\nThere are 11 international federations recognized by the IPC, while the IPC itself serves as the international federation for 10 sports.\n\nOn 30 November 2016, the IPC adopted the \"World Para\" brand for all 10 of the sports that it directly governs.\n\n\nFederations which are members of the IOC (ASOIF, AIOWF and ARISF) are members of the Global Association of International Sports Federations (GAISF), formerly known as SportAccord.\nAnd furthermore, several other federations which are not IOC members are members of the AGFIS, even if this is not a governing body of a sport.\n\n\n\n\nCornelius, Steve; Cornelius, Danie. The Legal Status of International Sports Federations 2014 (1) \"Global Sports Law and Taxation Reports\" 6.\n\n[[Category:Lists of sport organizations| *]]\n[[Category:Sports rules and regulations]]\n[[Category:International sports organizations| ]]"}
{"id": "25804896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25804896", "title": "List of jumping activities", "text": "List of jumping activities\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41659340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41659340", "title": "Multi-Use Games Area", "text": "Multi-Use Games Area\n\nA Multi Use Games Area (abbreviated MUGA) is usually a steel anti vandal outdoor fenced area with built in goal post units for various types of sports games, such as football, basketball or tennis. The outer fencing makes it easier to keep the ball in play. MUGAs are often installed at schools. MUGAs can be supplied in Half court (Open one end with one combination goal unit), Full court (Fully enclosed with two end goal units) and Key area (Open single goal end with key line markings).\nMUGAs are often supplied as ready-made solutions by various manufacturers. Sports MUGAs usually consist of a steel goal post and basketball goal post combination. This can be senior, junior or match quality for basketball. Sports played on MUGAs are varied, hence the term Multi Use. Basketball, football, hockey, netball, volleyball are usually provided for with appropriate floor line markings for each sport, which are lined in different coloured paints. Multi Use Games Area MUGAs are placed into the ground around a sports surface area including natural grass, artificial sports surfaces, sports tiles, tarmac or concrete. Some MUGAs are open ended, partially closed or fully enclosed. Sizes vary from Key Area 6m x 7.5m. Tarmac key lined. Half Court 7.5m x 15m. Full Court 15m x 30m.\n\nThe intense activity in a MUGA can increase noise and complaints from neighbours. The noise level depends on the material used for the fencing, and by the location. Positive results from United Kingdom local authorities can provide good evidence that placements of anti vandal Multi Use Games Areas can reduce anti social behaviour and increase fitness within early teen age groups in both cities and parish localities.\n"}
{"id": "43780610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43780610", "title": "National Sports Commission", "text": "National Sports Commission\n\nThe National Sports Commission is the Nigerian apex body responsible for regulating sports in the country, with Alhassan Yakmut serving as the last Director-General before it was scrapped by the Muhammadu Buhari government in 2015. It is headed by the Minister of Sports in Nigeria. Its origin dates as far back as 1910 with the creation of empire Day competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24923714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24923714", "title": "North American Association of Sports Economists", "text": "North American Association of Sports Economists\n\nThe North American Association of Sports Economists (NAASE) is an organization that promotes and facilitates research and teaching in the economics of sports. NAASE was founded in 2007. The organization emerged from the many sessions focused on sports economics at the Western Economic Association International (WEAI) meetings held throughout the 1990s and early 2000s. NAASE maintains a close relationship to the WEAI and the annual NAASE business meeting takes place at this conference. Although many NAASE members are academics, membership is open to anyone with an interest in sports economics, and NAASE counts undergraduate and graduate students in economics and other related disciplines like sport management as members, as well as non-economists with an interest in sports economics. Despite the regional scope implied by its name, NAASE has members from around the world, and many past and current officers have been from outside North America. NAASE currently has around 100 members.\n\nThe \"Journal of Sports Economics\" has been published in association with NAASE since 2008, and NAASE members receive discounted subscriptions to the journal. Beginning in February 2009, the \"Journal of Sports Economics\" began publishing an annual volume dedicated to papers from NAASE sponsored sessions at the Western Economic Association annual conference.\n\n\nNAASE sponsors sessions at numerous academic conferences, including the Western Economic Association International conference, the Southern Economic Association conference and the Eastern Economic Association conference. NAASE also sponsors a listserv to promote interaction among researchers in sports economics.\n\nNAASE, in conjunction with the International Association of Sports Economists, operates a working paper series that is part of Research Papers in Economics (Repec).\n\nNAASE confers an award every four years, the Larry Hadley Service Award, to recognize outstanding service to the field of sports economics. The first Larry Hadley Service Award will be given at the WEAI Annual Conference in Portland, Oregon in July 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2356756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2356756", "title": "Perfect season", "text": "Perfect season\n\nA perfect season is a sports season including any requisite playoff portion, in which a team remains and finishes undefeated and untied. The feat is extremely rare at the professional level of any team sport, and has occurred more commonly at the collegiate and scholastic levels in the United States. A perfect regular season (known by other names outside the United States of America) is a season \"excluding\" any playoffs, where a team remains undefeated and untied; it is less rare than a complete perfect season but still exceptional.\n\nA perfect season may be part of a multi-season winning streak.\n\nExhibition games are generally not counted toward standings, for or against. For example, the 1972 Miami Dolphins (below) lost three of their preseason (\"exhibition\" games in 1972 NFL vernacular) games but are considered to have had a perfect season.\n\nSince the National Football League began in 1920, only one team has played a complete perfect season (both regular season and playoffs): the 1972 Miami Dolphins, who won all fourteen of their regular season games and three postseason games, including Super Bowl VII, to finish the season 17–0–0.\n\nThe Dolphins briefly extended their winning streak before losing to the Oakland Raiders on September 23, 1973. It has often been reported that the surviving members of the 1972 Dolphins would, every season, either gather to drink champagne when the final undefeated team earned its first loss of the year, or send a case of champagne to the team who beat this final undefeated team. The head coach of the 1972 Dolphins, Don Shula, denied this in a 2007 interview with ESPN. On August 20, 2013, four decades after their accomplishment, President Barack Obama hosted the 1972 Dolphins noting that they \"never got their White House visit\".\n\nPrior to the development of a playoff system in the NFL in 1932, there were four teams who completed seasons undefeated, but with one or more tied games: the 1920 Akron Pros, the 1922 Canton Bulldogs, the 1923 Canton Bulldogs, and the 1929 Green Bay Packers. According to the 2012 NFL Record & Fact Book, under NFL practices at the time, from 1920 to 1971 tie games were not included in winning percentage (there was also no overtime to settle ties in the regular season until 1974) so, these four teams were recorded with perfect win percentages of 1.000.\n\nThe 1921 Buffalo All-Americans were controversially denied a similar type of near-undefeated season, when they believed that their final game, a 10-7 loss to the Chicago Staleys, was an exhibition game which would not count in the final standings; the NFL records that game as official, and Buffalo's record as 9–1–2.\n\nApart from the 1972 Dolphins, three NFL teams have completed undefeated and untied regular seasons: the 1934 Chicago Bears, the 1942 Chicago Bears, and the 2007 New England Patriots.\n\nIn 1934, the Bears played a 13–0–0 regular season and became the first NFL team to complete an undefeated regular season without tied games, but lost the 1934 NFL Championship Game against the New York Giants. Despite losing several players and head coach George Halas to military service in World War II, the 1942 Bears finished 11–0–0 but again lost the NFL Championship Game, this time against the Washington Redskins.\n\nThe 2007 Patriots became the first team after the NFL expanded its regular season to sixteen games in 1978 to finish the regular season undefeated. The Patriots then won their divisional and conference playoff games, but were upset by the New York Giants in Super Bowl XLII, giving them a final record of 18–1.\n\nNFL predecessors such as the Ohio League, New York Pro Football League and Western Pennsylvania Professional Football Circuit had many perfect seasons. In Ohio, the Massillon Tigers (1904, 1905), Akron Indians (1909), Shelby Blues (1911), and Dayton Triangles (1918) all had perfect seasons during this era. In New York, the Buffalo Niagaras went 5–0–0 (6–0–0 including a forfeit) in a league that consisted of teams entirely from the city of Buffalo in 1918. In 1920, the Union Club of Phoenixville, located in eastern Pennsylvania, played in a league mostly consisting of local teams and earned a perfect season, claiming for itself a mythical national championship. In western Pennsylvania, the 1900 and 1901 Homestead Library and Athletic Club teams, as well as the 1903 Franklin Athletic Club, all had perfect seasons.\n\nThe caliber of talent was neither as high nor as consistent between teams at the time, the seasons were generally shorter (7 to 11 games), and it was not uncommon for top teams to play all their games at home while lesser teams played all of their games on the road. In 1918, Dayton and Buffalo had the additional advantage of having its strongest competitors suspend operations due to the Spanish flu and the First World War, restrictions that also prevented the two teams from playing each other. Thus, it was much easier to earn a perfect season than it would become in the NFL.\n\nThe Los Angeles Bulldogs were a member of the second American Football League, who joined the league in 1937 after the Cleveland Rams defected to the NFL. Playing a combination of AFL teams and independent franchises (such as the Providence Steam Roller and the Salinas Packers), the team went 16–0, with 8 of those wins coming against AFL teams. The Bulldogs’ dominance is cited as one of the key factors in the AFL's demise, and the next season as an independent with a 10–2–2 record including a 2–1–2 record against NFL teams, several of the team's players were invited to play on the \"Pro All Stars\" team in the NFL's first Pro All-Star Game in Los Angeles. The Bulldogs are considered to be one of the few independent teams to have ever achieved parity with the NFL.\n\nThe Browns were a member of the All-America Football Conference, a professional football league that played from 1946 to 1949. In 1948, the Browns won all fourteen regular season games and the 1948 AAFC championship to post a 15–0–0 record. Cleveland's perfect 1948 season was part of a longer string of 29 straight wins, which stretched from 1947 to 1949 and included both the 1947 and 1948 title games. Overall, the Browns won all four AAFC championship games and were accepted into the NFL when the two leagues merged after the 1949 season.\n\nNeither the NFL nor the Pro Football Hall of Fame recognizes the Bulldogs’ perfect season; the Hall of Fame recognizes the Browns’ perfect season but the NFL does not.\n\nSince the NFL expanded to a fourteen-game regular season in 1961, eleven teams have had regular seasons with one loss and no ties (or better) while failing to achieve a perfect season:\nMost of these teams suffered their regular-season loss early in the year and, other than the 2007 Patriots (finished regular season 16–0), only the 1962 Packers (10–0), 1985 Bears (12–0), 2011 Packers (13–0), and 2015 Panthers (14–0) were on track for a perfect season when they lost. Coincidentally, the 1985 Bears’ lone loss came to the Miami Dolphins.\n\nThe best start from an NFL team who failed to complete a perfect regular season is shared by two teams: the 2009 Indianapolis Colts, who started 14–0 before losing their final two regular season games to the New York Jets and the Buffalo Bills to finish 14–2, and the 2015 Carolina Panthers, who went 14–0 before losing to the Atlanta Falcons and going on to finish the regular season 15–1. The 2009 Colts, having clinched the top seed in the AFC, sacrificed their chances at a perfect regular season and instead rested their starters the final two games to protect them for the playoffs. The Colts would go on to Super Bowl XLIV but lost to the New Orleans Saints. The 2015 Panthers were not resting their starters at the time of their loss (at the time, the Arizona Cardinals were 13–2 and still had an opportunity to surpass the Panthers for the top seed in the NFC).\n\nFour other teams have started 13–0 before losing their fourteenth game: the 1998 Denver Broncos, 2005 Indianapolis Colts, 2009 New Orleans Saints and 2011 Green Bay Packers (Of those near-perfect seasons, the 2011 Packers are the only team that did not win a single playoff game). The 1998 Broncos, 2005 Colts and 2009 Saints lost at least two of their final three games but the Broncos and Saints recovered to win the Super Bowl. The 1953 Cleveland Browns and 1969 Los Angeles Rams started 11–0 in twelve- and fourteen-game seasons respectively; both lost their only playoff game.\n\nThe following is a list of teams in minor or alternate leagues that compiled perfect seasons of six games or more, including postseason games, with no ties:\n\n\nIn indoor football, the following teams have had perfect seasons:\n\n\nAt least twenty-three other semi-professional football teams have had perfect seasons, seven of them being at least 17 games long. The Chambersburg Cardinals won a record 72 straight games between 1977 and 1984.\n\nThere have been no perfect seasons (or even perfect regular seasons) in the American Association, World Football League, United States Football League, XFL, or, to date, the Arena Football League. The United Football League has had two perfect regular seasons, but neither qualify for the list: the 2009 Florida Tuskers finished 6–0, but that team lost the subsequent championship game; the 2012 Las Vegas Locomotives had a record of 4–0 when the league abruptly suspended operations halfway through the season.\n\nThe 1933 Providence Huskies (possibly a successor to the Providence Steam Roller) played arguably the most perfect season ever recorded by a professional or semi-professional team: a ten-game season in which they won every game and did not concede a single point during any game.\n\nIn the 2014 German Football League the Braunschweig Lions compiled a perfect season (12–0 postseason 3–0), losing only in the BIG6 European Football League which is a different competition. They crowned the season with another German Bowl triumph. Similarly in the 2016 German Football League the Schwäbisch Hall Unicorns achieved a perfect regular season with a 14–0 record, similarly their lone defeat came in the BIG6 European Football League which is not considered for league standings. However, unlike Braunschweig before them, Schwäbisch Hall ultimately lost the German Bowl, in this case to Braunschweig. In the 2017 German Football League season, Schwäbisch Hall once more compiled a perfect season (14-0) but this time also won the German Bowl, again against Braunschweig. Interestingly, their opponent in the final had also entered the game with a 14-0 regular season record.\n\nA true perfect season (no losses and no ties through the regular season and playoffs) has never been achieved in professional Canadian football. Only one team, the 1948 Calgary Stampeders, has completed a perfect regular season.\n\nThe current Canadian Football League schedule would require a team to win 20 games (18 regular season, 1 playoff after bye week, and the Grey Cup championship) to post a perfect record.\n\nUnder head coach Les Lear, the 1948 Calgary Stampeders completed a perfect regular season with a record of 12–0; they had two wins and a tie during the playoffs to finish with a record of 14–0–1, the only undefeated complete season in Canadian pro history. In the Western Interprovincial Football Union championship (a home-and-home aggregate series decided on total points) against the Regina Roughriders, the first leg was tied 4–4, and the Stampeders won the second 21–10, to win the aggregate 25–14. The Stampeders then defeated the Ottawa Rough Riders 12–7 for the 36th Grey Cup.\n\nDespite the Stampeders' title, their achievement was only lightly regarded in the East. At the time, the Eastern and Western unions played separate regular seasons and only met in the Grey Cup. The Western union was openly regarded to be a weaker competition in the East, and Calgary's win (only the third for a Western team up to that time) was dismissed as a fluke.\n\nIn professional lacrosse, the 1993 Buffalo Bandits are the only team to have won a perfect season in the National Lacrosse League. The Bandits won all ten of their regular season games and won the championship in a two-round tournament; the season was the continuation of a multi-season winning streak that dated to the Bandits’ successful run for the previous year's championship.\n\nIn Major League Lacrosse, which began play in 2001, the 2013 Denver Outlaws were the first team to complete a perfect regular season, winning all fourteen of their games. After beating the Hamilton Nationals, the Outlaws had a sequence of twenty consecutive regular season wins despite losing the 2012 championship. However, the Outlaws lost in the first round of the playoffs to the Charlotte Hounds, who had only gone 7–7 in the regular season.\n\nIn North America's three other major professional sports leagues (Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, and the National Hockey League) it is almost impossible for a team to play a “perfect” season, primarily because there are substantially more games in the regular season (82 in the NBA and NHL, and 162 in Major League Baseball). The Women's National Basketball Association‘s season has been between 28 and 34 games long, and it too has never produced a perfect season.\n\nIt is possible for a baseball pitcher to achieve a perfect season, taking at least one win and any number of no-decisions throughout the year. This has happened 1813 times in baseball's history, though the majority (1171) were 1–0 seasons, mostly by relief pitchers. The best perfect season belongs to Tom Zachary of the 1929 New York Yankees, who posted a 12–0 record in 119.2 innings. No pitcher has ever achieved a perfect season while qualifying for the ERA title.\n\nIn the NBA, the 1985–86 Boston Celtics played a nearly perfect home season. During the regular season, they were 40–1 (.976) in front of their home crowd. The Celtics' only regular-season home loss occurred on December 6, 1985, to the Portland Trail Blazers, by the score of 121–103. The Celtics would also win all 10 of their home games in the postseason, to finish 50–1 at home. The 2015–16 San Antonio Spurs also played a nearly perfect home regular-season with a 40-1 (.976) record in front of their home crowd, with their only home loss occurring on April 10, 2016 vs. the Golden State Warriors by the score of 92-86. The Spurs were eliminated in the Western Conference Semi-Finals by the Oklahoma City Thunder in the 2016 NBA Playoffs. The Spurs played a total of 5 home games in the post season, finishing 43-3 at home, losing twice to the Thunder. The three-on-three basketball league BIG3, which featured an eight-game regular season and two-round playoff, had a perfect team in its inaugural season when Trilogy swept all ten games on their schedule.\n\nFor other sports leagues for individuals, such as the PGA Tour or NASCAR, a perfect season would represent winning every event in a season. Considering the number of tournaments or races in those leagues, and the fact that each individual faces over 40 opponents as opposed to one, a perfect season is almost impossible.\n\nGolf instead considers the Grand Slam, a sweep of the four men's major golf championships deemed to be the most difficult contests in professional golf, to be analogous to perfection. The only time the Grand Slam has been swept in any given year was 1930, when Bobby Jones won all four majors (at the time, The (British) Amateur Championship and U.S. Amateur were still considered majors); since 1934, when The Masters was added as a major, no player has won all four in one year. Tiger Woods is the only professional golfer to win four consecutive professional majors; he did so over two years in 2000 and 2001. The record for most consecutive wins in professional golf is 11, set Byron Nelson in 1945; Nelson would win 18 tournaments overall that year, a year when wartime manpower shortages were still limiting the number and quality of professional golfers for Nelson to compete against.\n\nIn Formula One, Michael Schumacher was the 2004 champion with 13 wins in 18 races. In IndyCar, A. J. Foyt won 10 out of 13 races. In NASCAR, Richard \"The King\" Petty holds most of the records for most wins in a season; he won 27 races out of 48 appearances in 1967, 10 of them consecutive. Since a format change in 1972, Petty also holds the modern-era record for most wins in a season, with 13, a record he shares with Jeff Gordon.\n\nProfessional motorcycle racer Ricky Carmichael had perfect seasons in 2002 and 2004. In 1997, road racer Tommy Kendall started the 13-race SCCA Trans-Am Series season 11–0, the longest documentable win streak in worldwide professional road racing. In the 12th race, he was battling for the lead on the final lap, but spun out and finished second. The feat would be extremely difficult in NASCAR, because of the length of the season (currently 36 races).\n\nIn 1966 Waynesburg College went 11–0 after a 9–0 regular season record.\nIn December 1966 Waynesburg defeated New Mexico Highlands in Albuquerque, New Mexico in the playoff game, \nand, defeated Whitewater Wisconsin in the NAIA Champion Bowl at Tulsa Oklahoma.\nThis was, and still is a college football rarity. \nVery few college football teams have won a College National Football Championship (including playoff games)\nwith an undefeated record.\n\nDue to relatively short seasons through most of college football history, the list of undefeated Division I football teams includes dozens of teams. The highest level of college football, the Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (introduced as Division I-A in 1978), did not use a playoff to determine a champion prior to the introduction of the four-team College Football Playoff (CFP) in 2014. The system replaced by the CFP relied on a combination of polls and computer rankings to choose two teams to play one title game in a system known as the Bowl Championship Series. Prior to 1992, no attempt was made to match up the top two teams in a championship game, further increasing the chances of multiple teams achieving a perfect season. The record for most wins in an undefeated FBS season is 14–0, accomplished in 2002 by Ohio State, twice in 2009 by Boise State and Alabama, in 2010 by Auburn, and in 2013 by Florida State.\n\nThe University of Washington's FBS record 64-game unbeaten streak included five straight perfect seasons from 1909–13. The University of Oklahoma's FBS record 47 game winning streak included three straight perfect seasons from 1954–56.\n\nBefore the establishment of the National Invitation Tournament in 1938 and the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament in 1939, perfect seasons were more common; each season consisted of fewer games and top teams from different parts of the country might never meet.\n\nEight teams have completed perfect seasons, including postseason tournament victories, since the tournament era began in 1938:\n\nIn addition, four other teams in the tournament era had unbeaten records, but did not play in any postseason tournament:\n\nThe UCLA Bruins are the only team to have back-to-back perfect seasons (1971–1972, 1972–1973), and all four of the college’s perfect seasons were under Hall of Fame head coach John Wooden.\n\nThe following teams completed a perfect regular season, but lost in the NCAA Tournament or other postseason action:\n\nIn the women’s game, the following national championship teams have had perfect records since the AIAW began sponsoring a championship tournament in 1972 (which was followed by the NCAA tournament in 1982):\n\nThe following teams completed perfect regular seasons, but lost in the NCAA Tournament or other postseason action:\nNotably, the 2015–16 season saw \"all three\" NCAA women’s champions finish with unbeaten seasons. In Division II, Lubbock Christian went 34–0. In Division III, Thomas More went 33–0 for the second straight season.\n\nAmong schools in the top level of men’s ice hockey, the 1969–70 Cornell Big Red went 29–0–0 in the University Division (the predecessor to today’s Division I) en route to a national championship.\n\nSince Cornell’s 29–0–0 season in 1969–70, the closest Division I Men’s Ice Hockey Team to having a perfect season was the 1992–93 Maine Black Bears, who finished that year at 42–1–2, including a national title game victory against Lake Superior State. Their only loss came on February 19, 1993, against Boston University, where they lost 7-6 in overtime, and their only ties were on October 24 against Providence, 3-3, and on January 15 against Clarkson, 4-4.\n\nThe last men’s team to finish unbeaten and untied and be national champions was the 1983–84 Bemidji State Beavers (31–0–0), who were then competing in Division II, a level of competition that no longer conducts a championship.\n\nThe 1955–56 Clarkson Golden Knights were undefeated and untied (23–0–0), but skipped the NCAA tournament because as the team had seniors with four years of college play which was against NCAA tournament rules at the time (not regular season rules).\n\nThe 1967–68 Iona Gaels went 16–0–0 in their inaugural season as an independent in Division III, but did not participate in a national championship as none existed for Division III at that time.\n\nThe most recent unbeaten and untied season in NCAA ice hockey at the highest level was in 2012–13 when the Minnesota Golden Gophers became the first NCAA women’s team ever to accomplish the feat (41–0–0).\n\nThe 2007–08 University of Illinois Fighting Illini, a club team, are the only American Collegiate Hockey Association team to record a perfect season with a record of 38–0–0.\n\nIn 1975 the number-one-ranked University of Ottawa Gee Gees had the first Canadian Interuniversity Sport (now U Sports) undefeated season. After completing their perfect regular season at 8–0, the Gees Gees won their first play-off defeating the number-two-ranked Toronto Varsity Blues 14–7. The Gees Gees then demolished the Windsor Lancers 45–6 to win the Yates Cup and the right to play for the national championship and the Vanier Cup. The undefeated season was completed on November 21, 1975, when the Gee Gees defeated the University of Calgary Dinos 14–9 at CNE Stadium in Toronto. That night the Gee Gees became the first undefeated team in CIS and Vanier Cup history. The 1975 Gees Gees roster had a big impact on the CFL. Gee Gee Players from the 1975 team played in the CFL for a cumulative total of 96 years and throughout their professional careers in the CFL accomplished: one Canadian Football Hall of Fame Inductee, one Grey Cup Canadian MVP, two Frank M. Gibson Trophies for Outstanding Rookie Eastern Division, two CFL Leo Dandurand Trophy Outstanding Lineman Eastern Division, twenty CFL and Divisional All-Star Selections, twenty-three Grey Cup Appearances and a total of twelve Grey Cup rings.\n\nIn 2003 and 2005, the Saskatchewan Huskies completed perfect regular seasons. However, in both years they lost in the playoffs: in the Vanier Cup to the Laurier Golden Hawks in 2005, and in the Canada West semi-final to Alberta Golden Bears in 2003.\n\nA perfect season was attained in 2007 by the Manitoba Bisons, the football squad representing the University of Manitoba, located in Winnipeg. The Bisons were undefeated in Canada West Universities Athletic Association play during the 8-game schedule. In the playoffs, Manitoba comfortably handled the Calgary Dinos 27–5 in the opening round. The Bisons followed up with a 48–5 defeat of the Regina Rams in the Hardy Trophy and a strong 52–20 showing against the perennial contenders from the University of Western Ontario, the Western Ontario Mustangs, in the Mitchell Bowl. On Friday, November 23, 2007, two days before the 95th Grey Cup game in Toronto, the Bisons defeated the Saint Mary's University squad, known as the Saint Mary's Huskies, 28–14 to claim their first Vanier Cup championship since 1970, and third overall title. That victory capped their perfect 12 win season.\n\nIn 2010, the Laval Rouge et Or located in Quebec City, had a perfect season of 13–0. They were undefeated with an 8–0 record in the QUFL. During the playoffs, they beat the Bishop's Gaiters 56–1 in the opening round. The Rouge et Or won the QUFL championship and the Dunsmore Cup by a close win of 22–17 against the Sherbrooke Vert et Or. They followed with a win of 13–11 against the Western Ontario Mustangs in the Uteck Bowl. Finally, on Saturday, November 27, 2010, in their home stadium in Quebec City, they won the Vanier Cup 29–2 against the Calgary Dinos, capping a 13–0 season.\n\nThe 1972–73 University of Toronto Varsity Blues (22–0–0) are the only men's hockey team in U Sports to win a national championship with no losses and no ties in the regular season and post season. The Varsity Blues won all 17 regular season games to place first in the Ontario University Athletics Association's East Division. In sudden death OUAA playoff action, the U of T defeated the University of Waterloo 13–2 and the University of Western Ontario 8–1. The University of Toronto downed the University of Alberta 5–2 and 5–3 in the University Cup semi final at Edmonton and shaded St. Mary's University 3–2 in the University Cup final at Toronto.\n\nThe 1975–76 St. Clair College Saints (26–0–0) of Windsor, Ontario were the first of two Canadian Colleges Athletic Association men's hockey teams to go unbeaten and untied in the regular season and post season en route to a national title. After winning all 20 regular season games to finish atop the Ontario Colleges Athletic Association's Western Division, St. Clair outscored Fanshawe 5–2 and 6–3 to win the division playoff series and advance to the conference championships where they topped Algonquin 8–2 and Humber 11–2. At the CCAA Hockey National Championships in Camrose, Alberta, St. Clair downed Cape Breton 10–4 in the semi final and Selkirk 11–2 in the final.\n\nThe 1984–85 Northern Alberta Institute of Technology (NAIT) Ooks (33–0–0) of Edmonton won all 25 of their regular season games in the Alberta Colleges Athletic Conference prior to sweeping the Camrose Lutheran College Vikings in a best-of-three conference semifinal series and the Red Deer College Kings in a best-of-five conference final series. At the CCAA Hockey National Championships in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, NAIT outscored the Cariboo College Chiefs 8–2, the Seneca College Braves 5–2 and the Victoriaville College Vulkins 9–2 to hoist the CCAA Championship Bowl.\n\nThe VFL began in 1897. Based entirely in the state of Victoria, before it expanded through the 1980s, and 1990s to become the top level national league (AFL) in the sport of Australian rules football. The length of a complete season (including finals matches) has typically been between 18 and 26 games. Throughout the history of the league, no team has ever completed a perfect season. One team, in 1929, completed a perfect home-and-away season, finishing with a record of 18–0; the club won the premiership, but did not complete a perfect season after losing the second semi-final against .\n\nThe SANFL has existed since 1877 within South Australia, and until the latter part of the twentieth century was of equivalent standard to the VFL. The only perfect season to be completed was by the 1914 Port Adelaide team, known as the \"Invincibles\". Port won all four of its pre season matches. It finished the minor round with a 12–0 record, before winning both finals to finish with a 14–0 record and a perfect season. They also won the Championship of Australia against VFL premiers Carlton, to extend that record to 15–0. In addition to this the club played a combined team from all the other SAFL clubs and won to extend the record to 16–0. The closest any team got to Port Adelaide was North Adelaide, losing by 21 points in Round 10. This is the only instance in The Big Three Australian football leagues (VFL/SANFL/WAFL) where a club has gone undefeated in the pre-season, season main and post season.\n\nIn 1912, Port Adelaide had a perfect minor round and then beat West Torrens in its semi-final but lost both the final and Grand Final to West Adelaide.\n\nThe WAFL has existed since 1885 within Western Australia, and until the latter part of the 20th century was of equivalent standard to either the VFL or SANFL. The 1946 East Fremantle team was the first club in senior WAFL football to have managed a perfect season or even a perfect home-and-away season, winning all twenty-one of its games; it is noted that the playing lists of many of its opponents had been seriously depleted by World War II. The only loss for the season came against Collingwood in a post season match. The 2018 Subiaco team won all of it's 18 games in the minor round before winning both their second-semi-final against South Fremantle and the Grand Final against West Perth.\n\nThe Victorian Football League, known until 1996 as the Victorian Football Association, began in 1877 and was Victoria's premier football league until 1897, and has been the second-tier league in the state since. Perfect seasons have been completed on four occasions in VFA/VFL history:\n\nThere were also cases of teams going undefeated through the season in the nineteenth century, but none completed perfect seasons because some of their matches were drawn. Of those, could be interpreted as having been perfect in 1879; it had a record of 15–0–1, and the draw came by agreement when a match was abandoned due to inclement weather.\n\nFour other teams have completed perfect home-and-away seasons, but subsequently lost finals matches:\n\nThe National Rugby League has existed since 1908, being originally known as the New South Wales Rugby League and before the Super League war of 1995 as the Australian Rugby League. In its history, only one team has completed a perfect season: the South Sydney Rabbitohs in 1925, who won all twelve games contested.\n\nFive other teams have gone undefeated but featured at least one drawn match: Balmain (1915), North Sydney (1921), Eastern Suburbs (1936 and 1937) and St George (1959).\nThe Brisbane Rugby League premiership began in 1909 and continued in varying forms until 1996, after which it was superseded by the Queensland Cup. Between the 1930s and the 1960s it was of comparable standard to the New South Wales Rugby Football League, but subsequently a huge drain of players to Sydney eroded the standard of play. Before World War II seasons were typically no more than twelve games long; however as the competition grew it was expanded to 21 games by 1960. The only BRL teams to manage a perfect season were:\n\nThe following team managed an undefeated season but drew one game:\n\nThe following teams managed an undefeated home-and-away season, but subsequently lost finals matches:\n\nWhilst no rugby league team in Britain has completed the perfect season in the top flight, this has been achieved on two occasions in lower divisions, once in the 2nd division and once in the 3rd. Hull F.C. achieved this feat in the 1978–79 Season, where they won 26 from 26 games, gaining promotion to the top division for the second time in three seasons. This was also achieved by the Dewsbury Rams in 2009 during their Championship 1 (third division) season where they won all 18 games from a possible 18, winning promotion immediately after being relegated the previous season where they won just two games. Since their 2009 promotion, the Rams have so far stayed in the sports' second division, including two play off finishes.\n\nIn 2017, the Toronto Wolfpack completed the regular reason with a perfect 15–0 record, however after the Super 8s finished with a 22-1-1 record.\n\nThe New Zealand All Blacks were the first professional rugby team to produce a perfect rugby test season in 2013. They successfully defeated four times, three times, and twice and also beat , and in their incredible winning run. They produced a record of 14–0–0, defeating the top 5 ranked teams below them in the IRB world rankings. have matched this feat after producing a perfect test season in 2016 after recovering from getting knocked out of their own World Cup in 2015.\n\nThe Southern Hemisphere's principal team competition, Super Rugby, established as Super 12 in 1996 and later known as Super 14 before adopting its current name in 2011, has seen only one perfect season. The Crusaders, based in Christchurch and representing a large portion of the South Island of New Zealand, finished the 2002 Super 12 season with an 11–0–0 record and went on to win both of their finals matches to claim the season crown unbeaten.\n\nOne other team has won a championship unbeaten: in 1997, the Auckland Blues (known simply as \"Blues\" since 2000), which at the time represented the central and southern parts of the Auckland area plus some adjacent regions to the south, finished the regular season with one draw from 11 matches. They also won both of their finals matches to claim the title.\n\nMany association football teams have also had perfect seasons, however doing so in a season of 20 or more matches is very rare. Clubs to have achieved this include: Dresdner SC of Germany in 1942–43 (23 wins out of 23), Ferencvárosi of Hungary in 1931–32 (22), Sunrise Flacq United of Mauritius in 1995–96 (22), and Nacional of Uruguay in 1941 (20). Al-Ahly (of Egypt) hold the record of going a whole season being unbeaten, in all possible competitions they were involved in (46 matches in total played in: Egyptian Premier League, Egyptian Cup, Egyptian Super Cup and CAF Champions League between 2005 and 2006). The longest winning streak of any team over multiple seasons was Sparta Prague's run of at least 51 wins in a row, between 1920 and 1923.\n\nTeams finishing a season unbeaten (i.e. having won or drawn every match) are more common. Arsenal in the 2003–04 English Premier League season, finished with no losses from 38 games over 100 years after Preston North End unbeaten streak in 22 league games and all of its FA Cup games in 1888–89. At the same time, AFC Wimbledon finished with a record of 42 wins, 4 draws and 0 defeats out of 46 games in their Combined Counties League Premier Division season. In Belgium, From 1933 to 1935 Royale Union Saint-Gilloise played 60 consecutive matches undefeated, setting a still unbeaten record in Belgium. In Italy, Perugia (1978–79), A.C. Milan (1991–92), and Juventus F.C. (2011–12) have been undefeated. In Turkish soccer, Galatasaray in the 1985–86 season completed the season unbeaten but finished as runners-up, although having the same points as Beşiktaş J.K., who won, but had an inferior goal difference to their rival. Beşiktaş J.K. in 1991–92 completed the season unbeaten and became Turkish League's only ever champions without defeat. In Portugal, Benfica (1972–73) was the first club to do so and won 28 matches – 23 consecutively – out of 30, and drew two. They also went undefeated in 1977–78 but finished second to Porto, who lost once that season. Porto finished the 2010–11 and 2012–13 seasons unbeaten, with a respective win–draw record of 27–3 and 24–6. In Saudi Arabia, Al-Hilal FC finished a 26-game season in the 2010–11 with 19 wins and 7 draws, whilst in Iraq, Al-Shorta FC went the entire 1980–81 Iraqi League season undefeated. Greek club Panathinaikos F.C. finished the 1963–64 season, Hungarian club Debreceni VSC finished the 2011–12 season, Norwegian club Rosenborg BK finished the 2010 season undefeated. The only unbeaten champion in Brazil was SC Internacional, who won the 1979 season with 16 victories and 7 ties. In Israel, Maccabi Haifa finished the 1993–1994 season (a 39-game season) in the Israeli Premier League with 28 wins and 11 draws.\n\nEgyptian Premier League giants Al Ahly are the only African club to have ever completed an entire domestic season unbeaten, let alone twice, having won their 30th league title in the 2004–05 season with a record of 24 wins and 2 draws and their 31st league title the following season with a slightly worse record of 23 wins and 3 draws.\n\nOn October 4, 2014 eventual Icelandic champions Stjarnan who were unbeaten faced an FH side in an away game which was the last game of the season, coincidentally before the match, FH were also unbeaten. In a closely fought match Stjarnan emerged victorious courtesy of a 94th-minute penalty from Ólafur Karl Finsen to knock FH out of first place and secure Stjarnan's first Icelandic championship.\n\nCeltic went domestically unbeaten across the 2016–17 season over all 38 league games in Scotland, finishing 30 points clear of second-place Aberdeen with 34 wins and 4 draws. Celtic also won the 2016–17 Scottish League Cup and the 2016–17 Scottish Cup, giving them the accolade of being the only club to win a domestic treble unbeaten.\n\nThe likelihood of a national team in the FIFA World Cup to win all of its matches in regulation time to become the champion is much higher than most clubs in their domestic league, as the finals tournament in its current format only lasts seven games — although this feat has only happened twice, Brazil on both instances in 1970 and 2002. This is not counting the qualifying round of the tournament, which lasts over a year and has had a varied format since 1934. Only the Brazilian team of 1970 has won every game in the qualification and final rounds of a single tournament, a total of 13 games. In 2010, the Netherlands came very close achieving the same feat as Brazil did in 1970. The Netherlands won 8 out of 8 qualifying games and went on to win the next 6 World Cup matches in regulation time only to lose in extra time to Spain in the final, ending with a 14–0–1 record.\n\nThrough 2011, the likelihood of a national team winning all of its matches in the FIFA Women's World Cup was slightly greater than in the men's version. The Women's World Cup began in 1991 with 12 teams and expanded to 16 effective in 1999. Under both structures, the winning team only had to win six games (three in group play and three in the knockout stage) to win the title unbeaten. The tournament expanded to 24 teams in 2015, at which time the number of games that the champion must play increased to seven (the same total as in the men's World Cup).\n\nThe 2011 event, won by Japan, was the first in which the champion lost in group play; the other finalist, the USA, had also lost in group play. Each previous team to have won the title — the USA in 1991 and 1999, Norway in 1995, and Germany in 2003 and 2007 — won all of its group stage matches. In fact, only one of these teams, the USA in 1999, had a knockout match go to extra time—specifically the final against China, which ultimately went to a penalty shootout. Germany won all of its matches in the 2007 final tournament without giving up a goal, becoming the first team in either the men's or women's World Cup to accomplish this feat. The USA's third championship team in 2015 had one draw in the group stage.\n\nThree Women's World Cup champions also went through their qualifying stage without a loss or draw:\n\nOf the other two teams to win the Women's World Cup without a loss or draw in the finals:\n\nIn 2011/2012, German handball champion THW Kiel achieved a perfect season of as many as 34 matches. Additionally, the team also won the national DHB Cup and the international EHF Champions League.\n\nIn the Liga ASOBAL the FC Barcelona Handbol had 4 consecutive perfect seasons from the 2013-14 season to the 2016-17 season.\n\nIn the Premijer liga the RK Zagreb is unbeaten for 11 years, they won 190 consecutive games, last time they lost against Osijek Motormodul (38:39) on 14.4.2007. In that 190 games they just have one tie with RK Poreč (31:31), after that game they won 178 games in a row and that row is still active.\n\nIn the 2012–13 Season, Vakıfbank İstanbul won all 52 games and reached five championship trophies in\n\nVakıfbank İstanbul won 6 games in Turkish Women's Volleyball Cup, 12 games in CEV Women's Champions League, 29 games (22 league, 7 play-off games) in Turkish Women's Volleyball League, 1 game in Turkish Women's Volleyball Super Cup and 4 games in FIVB Volleyball Women's Club World Championship, and never lost in the 2012–13 Season. In addition, they won all 51 games they played in year 2013.\n\nHaving started Turkish Women's Volleyball League's 2013–14 Season with 13 wins and 2013–14 CEV Women's Champions League with 8 wins, they extended their winning streak to 73 games as of January 23, 2014.\n\nThe Commonwealth Bank Trophy was the main national netball competition in Australia from 1997 to 2007. There were eight teams in a double round robin format and finals.\n\nThe Sydney Swifts were the only team to achieve a perfect season, winning all fourteen regular season games and both their finals matches for a record of 16–0.\n\nThe ANZ Championship, the principal netball competition for Australia and New Zealand was established in 2008 to replace the Commonwealth Bank Trophy. Comprising ten teams (five from Australia and five from New Zealand) there has so far been one perfect season, by the Mission Queensland Firebirds, based in Brisbane, Queensland in 2011. The Firebirds won thirteen regular season games and both their finals matches for a record of 15–0. In 2010, the New South Wales Swifts managed to win all thirteen regular season games, but lost both of their finals matches and ended with a 13–2 for that year.\n\nEnglish first-class county cricket has existed as the top tier of domestic cricket in England since the middle nineteenth century, and until the 1950s it was up to the highest standard of the game. Seasons have varied in length: before the 1880s, they were generally less than ten matches in length and some \"first-class\" counties played only against one or two different opponents, so that a team winning all its games was not implausible. Between 1887 and 1929, seasons were gradually increased in length to a standard twenty-eight matches for all counties. However, because of the development and popularity of one-day cricket, seasons have been reduced to twenty-four games in 1969 and twenty in 1972, though this was increased by two in 1977 and 1983. With an increase to four days for all games, sixteen or seventeen games have been played since 1993.\n\nAlso, because of improvements to pitches via the heavy roller and covering to protect from rain, the proportion of games \"drawn\" (not finished) has steadily risen since the 1870s.\n\nSince tables of results have been kept in 1864, the only team to have competed a true perfect season – winning outright every game – was Yorkshire in 1867 when led by George Freeman's and Tom Emmett's deadly fast bowling on uncovered and unrolled pitches, they won all seven county games.\n\nEssex CCC achieved the feat in the Summer of 2017, with the bowling combination of Simon Harmer and Jamie Porter doing most of the damage. Ryan Ten Doeschate captained the side,\n\nSince 1868 numerous county teams in longer schedules have finished a season unbeaten, but none have managed to win every single game outright:\nIn 2011 and 2012, the Washington Kastles of World Team Tennis completed back-to-back perfect seasons, the first major sports franchise in the United States to do so. The Kastles swept each of the 2011 and 2012 regular seasons with a perfect 14–0 record, then in each season went on to win their two postseason games and league's championship, amassing a 32-game winning streak in the process. This streak stands one short of the all-time professional sports record in the United States by the 1971–72 Los Angeles Lakers.\n\nIn the 2017 season the Swiss mountain biker Nino Schurter won 6 out of 6 races and additionally at the World Championships he won the gold medal at the singel and at the mixed race and the Cape Epic.\n\nIn the 2016 season the British mountain biker Rachel Atherton won 7 out of 7 races and additionally at the World Championships she won the gold medal. \n\n"}
{"id": "357319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357319", "title": "Ping-pong diplomacy", "text": "Ping-pong diplomacy\n\nPing-pong diplomacy ( \"Pīngpāng wàijiāo\") refers to the exchange of table tennis (ping-pong) players between the United States and People's Republic of China (PRC) in the early 1970s. The event marked a thaw in Sino-American relations that paved the way to a visit to Beijing by President Richard Nixon.\n\nThe United States viewed the People's Republic of China as an aggressor nation and enforced an economic containment policy including an embargo on the PRC, following its entry into the Korean War in 1950. After approximately 20 years of neither diplomatic nor economic relations, both countries finally saw an advantage in opening up to each other: China viewed closer relations with the United States as a beneficial counter to its increasingly tense relationship with the Soviet Union, while the U.S. sought closer relations with China as leverage in its peace negotiations with North Vietnam.\n\n\"[T]he thirty-first World Table Tennis Championships, held in Nagoya, Japan, provided an opportunity for both China and the United States.\"\n\nThe U.S. Table Tennis team was in Nagoya, Japan in 1971 for the 31st World Table Tennis Championships on April 6 when they received an invitation to visit China. From the early years of the People's Republic, sports had played an important role in diplomacy, often incorporating the slogan \"Friendship First, Competition Second\". During the isolationist years, athletes were among the few PRC nationals who were allowed to travel overseas. On April 10, 1971, the team and accompanying journalists became the first American delegation to set foot in the Chinese capital since 1949. The meeting was facilitated by the National Committee on United States – China Relations. Prior to the visit by the American table tennis players, eleven Americans were admitted into the PRC for one week because they all professed affiliation with the Black Panther Party which followed a Maoist political line. This was unusual, given that high-profile American citizens such as Senator Eugene McCarthy expressed interest in visiting China after the 1968 presidential election, but even he could not have a trip arranged for him despite his office.\n\nAccording to \"History of U.S. Table Tennis\" by Tim Boggan, who went to China along with the U.S. Table Tennis Team, three incidents may have triggered their invitation from China. Welshman H. Roy Evans, then President of the International Table Tennis Federation, claimed that he visited China prior to the 31st World Table Tennis Championship and suggested to non-Chinese sports authorities and Premier Zhou Enlai that China should take steps to get in contact with the world through international sport events after the Cultural Revolution. Furthermore, the American player Leah \"Miss Ping\" Neuberger, the 1956 World Mixed Doubles Champion and nine-time U.S. Open Women's Singles Champion, was traveling at the time with the Canadian Table Tennis Team that had been invited by China to visit the country. China diplomatically extended its approval of Leah Neuberger's application for a visa to the entire American team. The third incident, perhaps the most likely trigger, was the unexpected but dramatic meeting between the flamboyant American player Glenn Cowan and the Chinese player Zhuang Zedong, a three-time world champion and winner of many other table tennis events. Zhuang Zedong described the incident in a 2007 talk at the USC U.S.-China Institute.\n\nThe events leading up to the encounter began when Glenn Cowan missed his team bus one afternoon after his practice in Nagoya during the 31st World Table Tennis Championship. Cowan had been practicing for 15 minutes with the Chinese player, Liang Geliang, when a Japanese official came and wanted to close the training area. As Cowan looked in vain for his team bus, a Chinese player waved to him to get on his Chinese team bus. Moments after his casual talking through an interpreter to the Chinese players, Zhuang Zedong came up from his back seat to greet him and presented him with a silk-screen portrait of Huangshan Mountains, a famous product from Hangzhou. Cowan wanted to give something back, but all he could find from his bag was a comb. The American hesitantly replied, \"I can't give you a comb. I wish I could give you something, but I can't.\" This World Table Tennis Championships marked the return of China's participation after a six-year absence. When the Chinese team and Cowan walked off the bus, journalists who were following the Chinese team took photographs. In the political climate of the 1960s, the sight of an athlete of Communist China with an athlete of the United States was sure to garner attention. Glenn Cowan later bought a T-shirt with a red, white and blue peace emblem flag and the words \"Let It Be,\" which he presented to Zhuang Zedong at another chance meeting.\n\nWhen a journalist asked Cowan, \"Mr. Cowan, would you like to visit China?\", he answered, \"Well, I'd like to see any country I haven't seen before--Argentina, Australia, China, ... Any country I haven't seen before.\" \"But what about China in particular? Would you like to go there?\" \"Of course,\" said Glenn Cowan.\n\nDuring an interview in 2002 with the famous TV personality Chen Luyu, Zhuang Zedong told more of the story: \"The trip on the bus took 15 minutes, and I hesitated for 10 minutes. I grew up with the slogan 'Down with the American imperialism!' And during the Cultural Revolution, the string of class struggle was tightened unprecedentedly, and I was asking myself, 'Is it okay to have anything to do with your No. 1 enemy?'\" Zhuang recalled remembering that Chairman Mao Zedong met Edgar Snow on the Rostrum of Tiananmen on the National Day in 1970 and said to Snow that China should now place its hope on American people.\nZhuang looked in his bag and first went through some pins, badges with Mao's head, silk handkerchiefs, and fans. But he felt these were not decent enough to be a good gift. He finally picked the silk portrait of Huangshan Mountains. On the following day, many Japanese newspapers carried photographs of Zhuang Zedong and Glenn Cowan.\n\nWhen the Chinese Department of Foreign Affairs received a report that the U.S. Table Tennis Team hoped to get invited to visit China, the Department declined as usual. Zhou Enlai and Mao Zedong initially agreed with the decision, but when Mao Zedong saw the news in \"Dacankao\", a newspaper accessible only to high-ranking government officials, he decided to invite the U.S. Table Tennis Team. It was reported that Mao Zedong said, \"This Zhuang Zedong not only plays table tennis well, but is good at foreign affairs, and he has a mind for politics.\" On April 10, 1971, nine American players, four officials, and two spouses stepped across a bridge from Hong Kong to the Chinese mainland and then spent their time during April 11–17 playing fun matches, touring the Great Wall and Summer Palace, and watching a ballet.\n\n\nUpon his return to the United States, one of the American players told reporters that the Chinese were very similar to people in the U.S. He said:\nThe people are just like us. They are real, they're genuine, they got feeling. I made friends, I made genuine friends, you see. The country is similar to America, but still very different. It's beautiful. They got the Great Wall, they got plains over there. They got an ancient palace, the parks, there's streams, and they got ghosts that haunt; there's all kinds of, you know, animals. The country changes from the south to the north. The people, they have a, a unity. They really believe in their Maoism.\nTwo months after Richard Nixon's visit, Zhuang Zedong visited the U.S. as the head of a Chinese table-tennis delegation, April 12–30, 1972. Also on the itinerary were Canada, Mexico and Peru. However, China's attempts to reach out to countries through \"ping-pong diplomacy\" were not always successful, such as when the All Indonesia Table Tennis Association (PTMSI) refused China's invitation in October 1971, claiming that accepting the PRC's offer would improve the PRC's reputation. Because neither Soviet athletes nor journalists appeared in China following the appearance of the American players and journalists, one speculation is that the act showed the equal scorn of both countries towards the USSR.\n\nPing-pong diplomacy was successful and resulted in opening the U.S.-PRC relationship, leading the U.S. to lift the embargo against China on June 10, 1971. On February 28, 1972, during President Nixon and Henry Kissinger's visit to Shanghai, the Shanghai Communique was issued between the U.S. and the PRC. The Communique noted that both nations would work towards the normalization of their relations. Furthermore, the U.S. recognized that Taiwan is a part of China and agreed not to interfere in issues between China and Taiwan.\n\nAnother example of Ping Pong Diplomacy occurred during the 1991 World Table Tennis Championships in Chiba, Japan, where a unified Korean team played together for the first time since the Korean War.\n\nThe diplomatic efforts leading to the formation of this unified team were led by then-International Table Tennis Federation President, Ichiro Ogimura.\n\nPrior to the championships, Ogimura visited South Korea 20 times and traveled to North Korea 15 times to plead for a unified team from the Korean peninsula. Ogimura also worked with local Japanese government heads to create joint training camps in the cities of Nagano, Nagaoka and Chiba, and secured agreement from the ITTF for North Korea and South Korea to compete under the unified name of “Korea”.\n\nThe Korean team played under a white flag depicting the Korean peninsula in blue and used the Korean folksong, Arirang, rather than the national anthem of either the North or the South.\n\nThe competition saw the Korean team win one gold medal, one silver and two bronze medals.\n\nThis action has since been repeated. At the 2018 World Team Table Tennis Championships, the two Koreas entered separate teams in the competition but, when they were paired against each other at the quarter-final of the women's event, they negotiated instead to field a joint team for the semi-final.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4188995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4188995", "title": "Play-in game", "text": "Play-in game\n\nA \"'play-in game'\" is a game at the beginning of a tournament that forces the lowest qualifiers for the tournament to play each other before the main portion of the tournament begins. This gives an added advantage to the higher qualifiers, allowing them to rest, while the lower teams extend themselves by playing. Further, teams that participate in the play-in must usually play the next game against the highest qualifier in the tournament and play on the road. Having a play-in game allows for a tournament to have a number of teams that is not a power of two, and gives an extra advantage for teams to play for, as they try to win to avoid having to play in the extra game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42458903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42458903", "title": "Podiuming", "text": "Podiuming\n\nPodiuming is a slang term for the action of finishing a contest within the first three places. It is often used during sporting event television broadcasting, especially Olympic Games coverage. The term is commonly heard at Athletics events, bicycling races, marathons and other large-entrant number events. It is also commonly found on various social media posts by users of all backgrounds.\n\nPodiuming is not an officially recognized word in the English language. Many people do not even recognize the term as slang, but the words of ignorance. Even the use of the word podium as a verb instead of noun is controversial. The New York Times wrote on the very subject of the correct use of the word podium during its Winter Olympic coverage in 2010.\n\nIt should be noted that newspapers and magazines are not above using the term to develop headlines or other \"hooks\" in writing.\n"}
{"id": "50857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50857", "title": "Racing", "text": "Racing\n\nIn sport, racing is a competition of speed, against an objective criterion, usually a clock or to a specific point. The competitors in a race try to complete a given task in the shortest amount of time. Typically this involves traversing some distance, but it can be any other task involving speed to reach a specific goal.\n\nA race may be run continuously to finish or may be made of several segments called heats, stages or legs. A heat is usually run over the same course at different times. A stage is a shorter section of a much longer course or a time trial.\n\nEarly records of races are evident on pottery from ancient Greece, which depicted running men vying for first place. A chariot race is described in Homer's \"Iliad\".\n\nThe word \"race\" comes from a Norse word. This Norse word arrived in France during the invading of Normandy and gave the word \"raz\" which means \"swift water\" in Brittany, as in a mill race; it can be found in \"Pointe du Raz\" (the most western point of France, in Brittany), and \"raz-de-marée\" (tsunami). The word race to mean a \"contest of speed\" was first recorded in the 1510s.\n\nA race and its name are often associated with the place of origin, the means of transport and the distance of the race. As a couple of examples, see the Dakar Rally or the Athens Marathon.\n\nRunning a distance is the most basic form of racing, but races may be conducted in vehicles, such as boats, cars, cycles and aircraft; or with animals such as horses or dogs. Races may also be conducted with other modes of transport such as skis, kicksled, skates or wheelchair; or other forms of movement such as swimming or walking. In a relay race members of a team take turns in racing parts of a circuit or performing a certain racing form.\n\nOrienteering races add an additional task of using a map and compass to navigate from point to point in diverse and usually unfamiliar terrain.\n\nA race can also involve any other type of goal like eating. A common race involving eating is a hot dog eating race, where contestants try to eat more hot dogs than the other racers.\n\nRacing can also be done in more humoristic and entertaining ways such as the Sausage Race, the Red Bull Trolley Grand Prix and wok racing. Racing can be entertained from around the world.\n\nOne form of racing is through swimming. There are numerous ways to perform a good swim stroke: breaststroke, freestyle, butterfly and backstroke. In the racing form of swimming there are many rules that one must follow to perform fairly in a competition. \n\nFreestyle- In freestyle the racers start off on a block start and can perform either an open turn (When the swimmer just turns in the other direction in the water on the same plane) or a flip turn (when a swimmer flips over underwater and pushes off the wall with their feet. While they do a flip turn they can only touch the wall with their feet, and at the finish with only one hand.\n\nBreaststroke- For breaststroke, all limbs must move in a similar motion at the same time, remaining underwater most of the race with the racers heads bobbing up and down for air. For every arm stroke they are only allowed one leg kick.\n\nButterfly- Butterfly racing begins with a forward dive and after each lap, the racer must touch the wall with both hands at the same time. After the turn they must do dolphin kicks and allow their head to break the surface of the water within the first 15 meters.\n\nBackstroke- Backstroking in a race is often thought of an upside-down freestyle. These races start with the swimmers already in the water and they must maintain being on their back throughout the duration of the race. If they move their shoulders more than 90 degrees they will become disqualified from the race. \n\nThere are many different types of racing in the automotive field such as NASCAR, endurance racing, drag racing, and Formula One. While these all are races, the specific rules, regulations, and themes are unique to each series.\n\n--NASCAR is possibly the most recognizable form of racing, especially in the United States. The cars used are generally analogue and have little downforce. The race tracks take the general form of an oval such as the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and are raced counter-clockwise such that every turn is leftwards.\n\n--Formula One is a series of open-wheel formula cars. Formula 1 cars are the fastest regulated cars to drive race tracks due to the very high amount of downforce and mechanical grip.\n\n--Drag racing is a highly variable form of racing in which two cars or motorcycles attempt to cross a set finish line before the other. The most common form is the quarter-mile race. It can be done in anything from an everyday commuter to a Top Fuel dragster capable of accelerating to 300 mph in as little as 4.5 seconds.\n\nSpeed skating is performed on an ice rink and is usually done through the Olympics or other large organizations that perform in winter sports such as this. There are a lot of factors that go into having a fair, proper and safe ice race.\n\n--The Draw happens before any race and take place there needs to be a qualifying round, or the draw, to determine the place in which the racers will start in for their desired heat.\n\n--Before the Start of the race, the racers’ names are called and they must appear to the starting line within the given time or they will not be allowed to race. Once at the starting line, they must approach the line saying “ready” but at no point touch the line with their skate or with any other body part until the gun is shot.\n\n--False Starting for the race happens If the racer takes the starting line before saying ready or if they leave the starting line before the gun has been fired, they will receive a false start. They are given a warning at first and if they false start again then the racer whose fault it was will be disqualified from the race.\n\nCrossovers- During the race, each racer must switch lanes one time during each lap. This is due to the inner lop being shorter than the outer loop so it is only fair to have the racers switch each lap. Skaters can be disqualified for cutting the lines or leaving the inner curve.\n\nCutting lines- When the racer is making the turn they must not cross the inner line as they will be cutting the loop shorter, even though it is not that much of a distance, it will still differ on the racers finishing times.\n\n--When Leaving the inner curve, if for some reason the racer cannot hold the inner curve and for some reason interferes with the other racer, he or she will be disqualified.\n\n-- At the Finish, when they are approaching the finish line, the only way to complete the race is when the tip of their skate crosses the finish line. If they fall short and slide through the finish, time will not be recorded until the tip of the skate is through the finish line.\n\nA sprint finish is a racing tactic used in many forms of racing where a competitor accelerates towards top speed in the final stages of a race. This tactic is mostly associated with long-distance forms of running and cycling, which often feature large groups of competitors racing at a slower pace for much of the race – this slower aerobic racing allows for the subsequent anaerobic activity required for sprinting. The tactic relies upon keeping greater energy reserves than your opponent until the last part of the race in order to be able to reach the finish point first. It is the opposing tactic to keeping a steady optimal pace throughout a race to maximise your energy efficiency (see running economy).\n\nIn track and field, distances from 1500 metres upwards often feature sprint finishes. They can also be found in cross country and road running events, even up to the marathon distance. A runner's ability to sprint at the end of a race is also known as their finishing kick. Multisport races, such as the triathlon, often have running as the final section and sprint finish tactics are applied as they are in running-only events.\n\nIn cycling, sprint finishes are an integral part of the sport and are used in both track cycling and road cycling. Cycling sprints are often highly tactical, particularly on the track, with cyclists occasionally coming to a near halt at points before reaching a high speed finish. The longer track races such as scratch races often feature sprint finishes, as maintaining a steady pace within the peloton allows opponents to conserve energy through drafting. Road races are similar in this respect, in both short criterium races and long-distance races. Sprint tactics also form a major part of points classifications in road events, where cycling sprinters specialise in reaching an intermediate point first, thus gaining extra points and resulting prizes.\n\nSprint finish tactics are also used in speedskating, cross-country skiing, long-distance swimming, horse racing and other animal racing sports. The finishes of races which are outright sprinting events in themselves, such as the 100 metres track race, are not normally referred to as sprint finishes, as all competitors are already sprinting by default (thus it is not a racing tactic).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16732126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16732126", "title": "Rating of perceived exertion", "text": "Rating of perceived exertion\n\nIn sports and particularly exercise testing, the rating of perceived exertion (RPE), as measured by the \"Borg rating of perceived exertion scale\" (RPE scale), is a frequently used quantitative measure of perceived exertion during physical activity. In medicine this is used to document the patient's exertion during a test, and sports coaches use the scale to assess the intensity of training and competition. The original scale introduced by Gunnar Borg rated exertion on a scale of 6-20. Borg then constructed a category (C) ratio (R) scale, the Borg CR10 Scale. This is especially used in clinical diagnosis of breathlessness and dyspnea, chest pain, angina and musculo-skeletal pain. The CR-10 scale is best suited when there is an overriding sensation arising either from a specific area of the body, for example, muscle pain, ache or fatigue in the quadriceps or from pulmonary responses.\n\nThe Borg scale can be compared to other linear scales such as the Likert scale or a visual analogue scale. The sensitivity and reproducibility of the results are broadly very similar, although the Borg may outperform the Likert scale in some cases.\n\nThe Borg RPE scale is a numerical scale that ranges from 6 to 20, where 6 means \"no exertion at all\" and 20 means \"maximal exertion.\" When a measurement is taken, a number is chosen from the following scale by an individual that best describes their level of exertion during physical activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "9010996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9010996", "title": "Sailing wear", "text": "Sailing wear\n\nSailing wear is a type of clothing for sailing. It protects the sailor from water and insulates the body on board a vessel.\n\nThere are different types in use, the most premier sailing wear is the offshore set used for the open seas. Usually offshore sailing wear consists of special shoes or Wellington boots, a pant with suspenders, a jacket with a high collar, and other increasingly technical layers worn underneath this outerwear. In addition, specially designed gloves made with synthetic leathers are worn for protection and to increase holding power on sheets.\n\nMarine footwear is extremely important in order to stay safe while sailing. Sailing wet-boots are designed to keep the sailor's feet dry and can be either rubber moulded or more technical. The most common range of fabrics are Gore-Tex and leather. All of the 100% waterproof marine boots have non marking, slip-resistant soles in order to avoid any damage to the vessel's deck. All boots require thermal socks as the rubber does not provide enough warmth. Technical boots have a minimal insulating lining which is why socks are well advised.\n\nNotable producers are:\n\n"}
{"id": "42043844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42043844", "title": "Shuai Shou Gong", "text": "Shuai Shou Gong\n\nShuai Shou Gong ()\nis a hand-swinging exercise pioneered by Taiwan Qigong (气功）\n\nStanding with both legs apart at a width roughly equal to that of the shoulder, Shuai Shou Gong involves moving both arms in parallel, swinging first to the front of the body until they are the same height as the shoulder, then swinging the arms back with a little effort until both arms are behind the body. On every fifth swing, the knee should slightly bend down and spring back quickly - once when the arms are swinging towards the back of body and another on the return swing to the front of body.\n\nThis exercise should be carried out 3 times a day and last at least 10 minutes each time. It will help to improve the blood circulation and starts the healing process if there are any ailments. It is recommended to avoid drinking cold water immediately after the exercise.\n\nShuai Shou Gong is claimed to cure many ailments including cancer, with anecdotal cases reported in Taiwan. However, there is a lack of peer reviewed evidence supporting these claims, which likely arose due to the placebo effect.\n"}
{"id": "16760410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16760410", "title": "Sport industry", "text": "Sport industry\n\nSport industry is a market in which people, activities, business, and organizations involved in producing, facilitating, promoting, or organizing any activity, experience, or business enterprise focused on sports. It is the market in which the businesses are products offered to its buyers are sports related and may be goods, services, people, places, or ideas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "685328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=685328", "title": "Sports league", "text": "Sports league\n\nA sports league is a group of sports teams that compete against each other in a specific sport. At its simplest, it may be a local group of amateur athletes who form teams among themselves and compete on weekends; at its most complex, it can be an international professional league making large amounts of money and involving dozens of teams and thousands of players.\n\nIn many cases, organizations that function as leagues are described using a different term, such as association, conference, division, leaderboard, or series. This is especially common in individual sports, although the term \"league\" is sometimes used in amateur individual sports such as golf.\n\nThe term \"league\" is also sometimes applied to competitions that would more traditionally be called tournaments, such as the UEFA Champions League, which is organized with multiple small round-robin competitions followed by a single elimination tournament to choose an overall winner.\n\n\"League\" and its synonyms may be used to encompass either a single competition or a related group of competitions.\n\nMany groups use promotion and relegation, where the best-ranked team(s) in the \"lower division\" are \"promoted\" to the \"higher division\" for the next season, and the worst-ranked team(s) in the \"higher division\" are \"relegated\" to the \"lower division\" for the next season. Under this system, the term \"league\" may be used to refer both to a league system, a group of leagues that are tied together in a hierarchical fashion by promotion and relegation, and to the individual leagues within the league system. For example, in English association football, the English Football League (EFL) is a league system, while the term \"National League\" refers both to the league immediately below the EFL in the English pyramid and to its associated league system.\n\nAn alternate system of league organization which is used primarily in Australia, Canada, and the United States is a closed model which always has the same teams playing, with occasional admission of expansion teams and relocation of existing teams. There is no team movement between the higher \"major league\" and the lower \"minor leagues\".\n\nIn many of these closed-model leagues in Canada and the United States, they are divided into subdivisions on historical or geographical lines. These may be referred to as \"conferences\" or \"divisions\". For example, the National Football League (NFL) is divided into the National Football Conference and American Football Conference; the latter conference was formed largely from the remnants of the American Football League after it merged with the NFL, though it now contains three original NFL teams and three expansion teams. Both the National Basketball Association (NBA) and National Hockey League (NHL) are divided into Eastern and Western Conferences. The conferences in the NFL, NBA, and NHL are further divided into subsets, all of which are called \"divisions.\" These are geographically based, and teams play their divisional opponents more than any others, and then play the other clubs in their conference more than their non-conference opponents.\n\nBaseball has a unique nomenclature, with \"Major League Baseball\" (MLB) the name of the overall grouping of 30 teams in two \"major leagues\", the American League (AL) and the older National League (NL). They are titled leagues rather than conferences for several reasons. The National League predates the American by 25 years and was considered a \"major\" league in comparison to its early competitors, and in a sense it simply extended this recognition to the AL, the only league of similar financial clout. In addition, the leagues played no interlocking schedule of any kind until 1995, and then added only a small amount of interleague play, with the main AL-NL competition occurring between their champions in the World Series. Thus the two leagues played mostly separate competitions within the larger framework of MLB. Finally, until 2000, they were actually separate legal entities, unlike the conferences of other leagues. Nippon Professional Baseball in Japan has a similar history, with the Central League and Pacific League not founded together.\n\nDue to this naming custom, it is common to use slightly different terms to discuss MLB. Where someone might refer to \"the best quarterback in the league\" and be understood to mean the overall NFL, a similar mention of \"the best outfielder in the league\" is almost always a reference to the American \"or\" National League, and \"all of baseball\" or similar is used to denote the larger status. Each of the major leagues also has its own set of awards to recognize the separation between the two, which means there are two MVPs, two Cy Young winners, etc. And since its name is constructed differently—a description of the status of two leagues rather than the title of one—it is common to hear \"MLB\" without \"the\" attached to it, as in \"the most home runs in MLB this year,\" since one would not say \"the Major League Baseball.\"\n\nThe common thread between all sports leagues is a structure that allows teams or individuals to compete against each other in a nonrandom order on a set schedule, usually called a \"season,\" with the results of the individual competitions being used to name an overall champion.\n\nA league championship may be contested in a number of ways. Each team may play every other team a certain number of times in a round-robin tournament. Usually, teams play equal number of games or matches at their own stadium and at other teams', because home advantage is a major factor in many sports. When teams competing for a tournament championship do not play the same teams the same number of times, it is known as an unbalanced schedule.\n\nIn such a set-up, the team with the best record becomes champion, based on either a strict win-loss-tie system or on a points system where a certain number of points are awarded for a win, loss, or tie, while bonus points might also be added for teams meeting various criteria. Many leagues also use playoffs, where after teams compete in a regular season in a league format, the top teams (possibly determined by conference or division) advance to the playoffs. In some such leagues having the best regular season record is relatively unimportant, though top-seeded teams in some leagues, such as the NFL, can gain byes to later rounds of the playoffs, and teams finishing with the best records usually have the advantage of playing the weakest teams that have advanced to the playoffs.\n\nWhile round-robin and modified round-robin competitions are the most common form of league organization, there are a number of ways to organize a sporting competition, almost all of which may be described as a \"league\". Many sports organizations fall on a continuum between a total lack of organization, as in a pick-up game, and a formal league such as is common at the highest level of professional team sports.\n\nThe simplest form of competition is to allow teams to play each other whenever they see fit. In some sports, such as horse racing, the main goal of the entrants is to win individual purses, and there is little or no ranking or competition outside winning certain major races. A small amount of league organization may be imposed on these non-league sports by way of a series or tournament tying several individual events together, such as the Triple Crown.\n\nEven in team sports that normally use a traditional league format, some teams often exist outside any league; these teams are generally known as barnstorming teams and either schedule games against local professional or amateur competition or bring their own competition, such as the barnstorming Harlem Globetrotters did when they toured with the Washington Generals. As with the Globetrotters, barnstorming teams sometimes emphasize spectacle over athletic competition.\n\nIn Europe, the term \"cup competition\" is used to describe single elimination or knock-out tournaments, where the pairing of teams in each round is determined by a \"draw\" (see for example, the FA Cup in England), to distinguish it from league competition, in which every club in the league or division plays the other teams a pre-determined number of times in a season, usually on a home and away basis.\n\nFurther, in England, the term non-league football is used for historical reasons to describe association football teams that play in organized leagues, but not in the English Football League or Premier League, the two highest levels of competition in that sport in that country.\n\nIndependent baseball is used similarly in the United States to describe baseball teams that play in leagues other than those sanctioned by Major League Baseball. These teams do play in leagues and should not be confused with barnstorming teams that play truly non-league schedules.\n\nIndividual sports often use an alternative type of league organization where competitors are ranked against each other. In the simplest cases, such as boxing, the rankings mean little and the major competition is to crown a champion in a title fight.\n\nIn other sports, the rankings and leaderboards gain importance when they are used in seeding tournaments.\n\nIn some sports, points are assigned to results at individual competitions, and the resulting points are used to generate a season rankings and determine the season champion. While not usually referred to as \"leagues\", but \"tours\" or \"series\", these season-long competitions with set events are very similar to league structures in team sports. Examples of this are motorsport, tennis, golf, skiing, beach volleyball and rugby sevens.\n\nAmerican college sports are traditionally organized into groups of teams known as \"conferences.\" These conferences ordinarily keep league tables and crown champions within the conference, as other sports leagues do, but the individual school also schedule a certain number of \"non-conference\" games that are organized independently between two schools in different conferences, or between a conference team and a non-conference team. Also, national championships in some college sports are determined by a ranking or playoff system that is independent of the individual conferences.\n\nMost major team sports play some form of round-robin schedule, where the goal is for each team to play a relatively balanced schedule with each other team in the league or in its league subdivision. Within this structure, there are a few significant differences between leagues, a few of which are set forth below.\n\nThe simplest way to organize a sports league, and still one of the most common, is in a double round-robin format where each team plays each other team twice, once at home and once away. This ensures that every team plays an equally difficult schedule and that no team has undue home field advantage. This organization is still used in many team sports around the world.\n\nOne potential drawback of this simple double round-robin format is that the number of teams in the league determines the schedule. Larger leagues may not be able to play as many games as such a system would require, and smaller leagues may want more games. In addition, leagues whose teams are geographically spread out over a wide area (a common situation for leagues in North America) may face significant travel costs. One solution is to play an unbalanced schedule, with some teams playing additional games against some other teams; this is the way Major League Soccer has traditionally been scheduled, with the additional games being played against local rivals. Some leagues also break the league into subunits, often known as \"divisions\" and \"conferences,\" each of which may itself play a balanced or unbalanced schedule.\n\nMany sports leagues also participate in a single-elimination tournament each year. In the United States, Mexico, and some other countries, these tournaments are commonly called \"playoffs\" and are played at the end of the season, with the teams qualifying for the playoffs based on their performance during the season. In Europe, \"cup\" competitions are more common, with all teams playing in a single-elimination tournament that takes place during and parallel with the regular season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3779045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3779045", "title": "Stat padding", "text": "Stat padding\n\nIn sports, stat padding is an action that improves a player's statistics despite being of little benefit to his or her team or its chance of winning. An example would be a gridiron football player throwing long passes with an empty backfield on first down in the fourth quarter of a game in which his team was already leading by a large margin.\n\nStat padding is also noticeable in online computer games. A group of players might perform a series of actions which generally require little skill in order to raise a player's statistics. For example, in first person shooters, two or more players might join different teams and constantly kill one another, usually followed by a heal, revive, or respawn. Actions such as these are usually done on password-protected or empty game servers. An example of this in the popular online computer game Battlefield 2 would be when three players collude, one as a medic, another from the other team as a killer, and another person from the medic's team, called the \"dummy\", to be the victim. The killer shoots the dummy, and the medic then heals or revives his teammate. The killer shoots the dummy again and the process continues. \n\nIt is also possible to stat pad by completing objectives or performing actions in an empty server, or by co-operating with a player on another team. While co-operating with players on another team may pad stats, this is widely considered a form of cheating.\n\n"}
{"id": "1240348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1240348", "title": "Strength training", "text": "Strength training\n\nStrength training is a type of physical exercise specializing in the use of resistance to induce muscular contraction which builds the strength, anaerobic endurance, and size of skeletal muscles.\n\nWhen properly performed, strength training can provide significant functional benefits and improvement in overall health and well-being, including increased bone, muscle, tendon, and ligament strength and toughness, improved joint function, reduced potential for injury, increased bone density, increased metabolism, increased fitness and improved cardiac function. Training commonly uses the technique of progressively increasing the force output of the muscle through incremental weight increases and uses a variety of exercises and types of to target specific muscle groups. Strength training is primarily an anaerobic activity, although some proponents have adapted it to provide the benefits of aerobic exercise through circuit training.\n\nStrength training is typically associated with the production of lactate, which is a limiting factor of exercise performance. Regular endurance exercise leads to adaptations in skeletal muscle which can prevent lactate levels from rising during strength training. This is mediated via activation of PGC-1alpha which alter the LDH (lactate dehydrogenase) isoenzyme complex composition and decreases the activity of the lactate generating enzyme LDHA, while increasing the activity of the lactate metabolizing enzyme LDHB.\n\nSports where strength training is central are bodybuilding, weightlifting, powerlifting, strongman, Highland games, shot put, discus throw, and javelin throw. Many other sports use strength training as part of their training regimen, notably tennis, American football, wrestling, track and field, rowing, lacrosse, basketball, pole dancing, hockey, professional wrestling, rugby union, rugby league, and soccer. Strength training for other sports and physical activities is becoming increasingly popular.\n\nThe benefits of weight training include greater muscular strength, improved muscle tone and appearance, increased endurance and enhanced bone density.\n\nMany people take up weight training to improve their physical attractiveness. There is evidence that a body type consisting of broad shoulders and a narrow waist, attainable through strength training, is the most physically attractive male attribute according to women participating in the research. Most men can develop substantial muscles; most women lack the testosterone to do it, but they can develop a firm, \"toned\" (see below) physique, and they can increase their strength by the same proportion as that achieved by men (but usually from a significantly lower starting point). An individual's genetic make-up dictates the response to weight training stimuli to a significant extent. Training can not exceed a muscle's intrinsic genetically determined qualities though polymorphic expression does occur e.g., Myosin heavy chains\n\nStudies also show that people are able to tell the strength of men based on photos of their bodies and faces, and that physical appearance indicates cues of strengths that are often linked to a man's physical formidability and, therefore, his attractiveness. This is aligned with studies that reveal those who undergo strength training attain more self-esteem and body cathexis when compared to individuals who do not undergo training or exercise. In addition, people who undergo strength training tend to have a more favorable body image even than those who also engage in regular physical activities such as walking and running. More women are also increasingly revealed to be dissatisfied with their body today than those surveyed in 1984 and they often turn to exercise such as strength training to improve their body shape.\n\nWorkouts elevate metabolism for up to 14 hours following 45-minutes of vigorous exercise.\n\nStrength training also provides functional benefits. Stronger muscles improve posture, provide better support for joints, and reduce the risk of injury from everyday activities. Older people who take up weight training can prevent some of the loss of muscle tissue that normally accompanies aging—and even regain some functional strength—and by doing so become less frail. They may be able to avoid some types of physical disability. Weight-bearing exercise also helps to prevent osteoporosis and to improve bone strength in those with osteoporosis. The benefits of weight training for older people have been confirmed by studies of people who began engaging in it even in their 80s and 90s.\n\nThough strength training can stimulate the cardiovascular system, many exercise physiologists, based on their observation of maximal oxygen uptake, argue that aerobics training is a better cardiovascular stimulus. Central catheter monitoring during resistance training reveals increased cardiac output, suggesting that strength training shows potential for cardiovascular exercise. However, a 2007 meta-analysis found that, though aerobic training is an effective therapy for heart failure patients, combined aerobic and strength training is ineffective.\n\nStrength training may be important to metabolic and cardiovascular health. Recent evidence suggests that resistance training may reduce metabolic and cardiovascular disease risk. Overweight individuals with high strength fitness exhibit metabolic/cardiovascular risk profiles similar to normal-weight, fit individuals rather than overweight unfit individuals.\n\nFor many people in rehabilitation or with an acquired disability, such as following stroke or orthopaedic surgery, strength training for weak muscles is a key factor to optimise recovery. For people with such a health condition, their strength training is likely to need to be designed by an appropriate health professional, such as a physiotherapist or an occupational therapist.\n\nStronger muscles improve performance in a variety of sports. Sport-specific training routines are used by many competitors. These often specify that the speed of muscle contraction during weight training should be the same as that of the particular sport.\n\nOne side effect of intense exercise is increased levels of dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine, which can help to improve mood and counter feelings of depression (It should be noted that dopamine and serotonin were not found to be increased by resistance training).\n\nDeveloping research has demonstrated that many of the benefits of exercise are mediated through the role of skeletal muscle as an endocrine organ. That is, contracting muscles release multiple substances known as myokines which promote the growth of new tissue, tissue repair, and various anti-inflammatory functions, which in turn reduce the risk of developing various inflammatory diseases.\n\nThe basic principles of strength training involve a manipulation of the number of repetitions (reps), sets, tempo, exercises and force to cause desired changes in strength, endurance or size by overloading of a group of muscles. The specific combinations of reps, sets, exercises, resistance and force depend on the purpose of the individual performing the exercise: to gain size and strength multiple (4+) sets with fewer reps must be performed using more force.\nA wide spectrum of regimens can be adopted to achieve different results, but the classic formula recommended by the American College of Sports Medicine reads as follows:\n\nTypically failure to use good form during a training set can result in injury or an inability to meet training goals – since the desired muscle group is not challenged sufficiently, the threshold of overload is never reached and the muscle does not gain in strength. There are cases when cheating is beneficial, as is the case where weaker groups become the weak link in the chain and the target muscles are never fully exercised as a result.\n\nStrength training has a variety of specialized terms used to describe parameters of strength training:\n\nFor developing endurance, gradual increases in volume and gradual decreases in intensity is the most effective program.\nSets of thirteen to twenty repetitions develop anaerobic endurance, with some increases to muscle size and limited impact on strength.\n\nIt has been shown that for beginners, multiple-set training offers minimal benefits over single-set training with respect to either strength gain or muscle mass increase, but for the experienced athlete multiple-set systems are required for optimal progress. However, one study shows that for leg muscles, three sets are more effective than one set.\n\nBeginning weight-trainers are in the process of training the neurological aspects of strength, the ability of the brain to generate a rate of neuronal action potentials that will produce a muscular contraction that is close to the maximum of the muscle's potential.\n\nWeights for each exercise should be chosen so that the desired number of repetitions can just be achieved.\n\nIn one common method, weight training uses the principle of progressive overload, in which the muscles are overloaded by attempting to lift at least as much weight as they are capable. They respond by growing larger and stronger. This procedure is repeated with progressively heavier weights as the practitioner gains strength and endurance.\n\nHowever, performing exercises at the absolute limit of one's strength (known as one rep max lifts) is considered too risky for all but the most experienced practitioners. Moreover, most individuals wish to develop a combination of strength, endurance and muscle size. One repetition sets are not well suited to these aims. Practitioners therefore lift lighter (sub-maximal) weights, with more repetitions, to fatigue the muscle and all fibres within that muscle as required by the progressive overload principle.\n\nCommonly, each exercise is continued to the point of momentary muscular failure. Contrary to widespread belief, this is not the point at which the individual thinks they cannot complete any more repetitions, but rather the first repetition that fails due to inadequate muscular strength. Training to failure is a controversial topic with some advocating training to failure on all sets while others believe that this will lead to overtraining, and suggest training to failure only on the last set of an exercise. Some practitioners recommend finishing a set of repetitions just before reaching a personal maximum at a given time. Adrenaline and other hormones may promote additional intensity by stimulating the body to lift additional weight (as well as the neuro-muscular stimulations that happen when in \"fight-or-flight\" mode, as the body activates more muscle fibres), so getting \"psyched up\" before a workout can increase the maximum weight lifted.\n\nWeight training can be a very effective form of strength training because exercises can be chosen, and weights precisely adjusted, to safely exhaust each individual muscle group after the specific numbers of sets and repetitions that have been found to be the most effective for the individual. Other strength training exercises lack the flexibility and precision that weights offer.\n\nSplit training involves working no more than three muscle groups or body parts per day, instead spreading the training of specific body parts throughout a training cycle of several days. It is commonly used by more advanced practitioners due to the logistics involved in training all muscle groups maximally. Training all the muscles in the body individually through their full range of motion in a single day is generally not considered possible due to caloric and time constraints. Split training involves fully exhausting individual muscle groups during a workout, then allowing several days for the muscle to fully recover. Muscles are worked roughly twice per week and allowed roughly 72 hours to recover. Recovery of certain muscle groups is usually achieved on days while training other groups, i.e. a 7-day week can consist of a practitioner training trapezius, side shoulders and upper shoulders to exhaustion on one day, the following day the arms to exhaustion, the day after that the rear, front shoulders and back, the day after that the chest. In this way all mentioned muscle groups are allowed the necessary recovery.\n\nThree important variables of strength training are intensity, volume, and frequency. Intensity refers to the amount of work required to achieve the activity and is proportional to the mass of the weights being lifted. Volume refers to the number of muscles worked, exercises, sets, and reps during a single session. Frequency refers to how many training sessions are performed per week.\n\nThese variables are important because they are all mutually conflicting, as the muscle only has so much strength and endurance, and takes time to recover due to microtrauma. Increasing one by any significant amount necessitates the decrease of the other two, e.g. increasing weight means a reduction of reps, and will require more recovery time and therefore fewer workouts per week. Trying to push too much intensity, volume and frequency will result in overtraining, and eventually lead to injury and other health issues such as chronic soreness and general lethargy, illness or even acute trauma such as avulsion fractures. A high-medium-low formula can be used to avoid overtraining, with either intensity, volume, or frequency being high, one of the others being medium, and the other being low. One example of this training strategy can be found in the following chart:\n\nA common training strategy is to set the volume and frequency the same each week (e.g. training 3 times per week, with 2 sets of 12 reps each workout), and steadily increase the intensity (weight) on a weekly basis. However, to maximize progress to specific goals, individual programs may require different manipulations, such as decreasing the weight, and increase volume or frequency.\n\nMaking program alterations on a daily basis (daily undulating periodization) seems to be more efficient in eliciting strength gains than doing so every 4 weeks (linear periodization), but for beginners there are no differences between different periodization models.\n\nThere are many complicated definitions for periodization, but the term simply means the division of the overall training program into periods which accomplish different goals.\n\nPeriodization is the modulating of volume, intensity, and frequency over time, to both stimulate gains and allow recovery.\n\nIn some programs for example; volume is decreased during a training cycle while intensity is increased. In this template, a lifter would begin a training cycle with a higher rep range than he will finish with.\n\nFor this example, the lifter has a 1 rep max of 225 lb:\n\nThis is an example of periodization where the number of repetitions decreases while the weight increases.\n\nThere are many methods of strength training. Examples include weight training, circuit training, isometric exercise, gymnastics, plyometrics, Parkour, yoga, Pilates, Super Slow.\n\nStrength training may be done with minimal or no equipment, for instance bodyweight exercises. Equipment used for strength training includes barbells and dumbbells, weight machines and other exercise machines, weighted clothing, resistance bands, , Swiss balls, wobble boards, indian clubs, pneumatic exercise equipment, hydraulic exercise equipment.\n\nStrength training exercise is primarily anaerobic. Even while training at a lower intensity (training loads of ~20-RM), anaerobic glycolysis is still the major source of power, although aerobic metabolism makes a small contribution. Weight training is commonly perceived as anaerobic exercise, because one of the more common goals is to increase strength by lifting heavy weights. Other goals such as rehabilitation, weight loss, body shaping, and bodybuilding often use lower weights, adding aerobic character to the exercise.\n\nExcept in the extremes, a muscle will fire fibres of both the aerobic or anaerobic types on any given exercise, in varying ratio depending on the load on the intensity of the contraction. This is known as the energy system continuum. At higher loads, the muscle will recruit all muscle fibres possible, both anaerobic (\"fast-twitch\") and aerobic (\"slow-twitch\"), in order to generate the most force. However, at maximum load, the anaerobic processes contract so forcefully that the aerobic fibers are completely shut out, and all work is done by the anaerobic processes. Because the anaerobic muscle fibre uses its fuel faster than the blood and intracellular restorative cycles can resupply it, the maximum number of repetitions is limited. In the aerobic regime, the blood and intracellular processes can maintain a supply of fuel and oxygen, and continual repetition of the motion will not cause the muscle to fail.\n\nCircuit weight training is a form of exercise that uses a number of weight training exercise sets separated by short intervals. The cardiovascular effort to recover from each set serves a function similar to an aerobic exercise, but this is not the same as saying that a weight training set is itself an aerobic process.\n\nWeight trainers commonly divide the body's individual muscles into ten major muscle groups. These do not include the hip, neck and forearm muscles, which are rarely trained in isolation. The most common exercises for these muscle groups are listed below.\n\nThe sequence shown below is one possible way to order the exercises. The large muscles of the lower body are normally trained before the smaller muscles of the upper body, because these first exercises require more mental and physical energy. The core muscles of the torso are trained before the shoulder and arm muscles that assist them. Exercises often alternate between \"pushing\" and \"pulling\" movements to allow their specific supporting muscles time to recover. The stabilizing muscles in the waist should be trained last.\n\nA number of techniques have been developed to make weight training exercises more intense, and thereby potentially increase the rate of progress. Many weight lifters use these techniques to bring themselves past a plateau, a duration where a weightlifter may be unable to do more lifting repetitions, sets, or use higher weight resistance.\n\nA drop set is an easy method of strength training where you perform a set of any exercise to failure or right before failure, and then reduce the weight and continue to lift for more repetitions with the decreased weight.\n\nPyramid sets are weight training sets in which the progression is from lighter weights with a greater number of repetitions in the first set, to heavier weights with fewer repetitions in subsequent sets.\n\nA reverse pyramid is the opposite in which the heavier weights are used at the beginning and progressively lightened.\n\nBurnouts combine pyramids and drop sets, working up to higher weights with low reps and then back down to lower weights and high reps.There are a few different ways one could perform burnout sets but the main idea is to perform an exercise until failure. You should start with a weight that is 75% of the amount of the maximum amount of weight you can lift for 1 rep. Once you’ve performed the exercise to exhaustion, reduce the weight and perform another set until failure, which will usually consist of much fewer repetitions. Burnout sets sound very similar to supersets but there are differences in the results they produce. Supersets help increase muscle mass, but are more efficient for producing muscle definition and shape. Burnout sets help increase muscle growth because of the buildup of lactic acid in the muscle when it’s forced to the point of failure.\n\nThe diminishing set method is where a weight is chosen that can be lifted for 20 reps in one set, and then 70 repetitions are performed in as few sets as possible.\n\nThe rest-pause training method takes one whole set and breaks it down into a few mini sets. There are two different goals that are associated with rest-pause training, you could use it to increase hypertrophy or increase strength. To increase hypertrophy you would perform a set with weight you are comfortable lifting for 6-10 reps and then set the weight down. Next, take 15 seconds worth of deep breaths and pick the weight back up and lift to failure. Lastly, repeat step two as many times as you want but it is commonly done twice. In order to increase strength using rest-pause method first you would choose a weight that is 85-95% of your one rep max. Then you would perform 1 rep with this weight and follow that up with a 30-45 second break. Then you could repeat this process as many times as you’d like.\n\nThe Giant set, is a form of training that targets one muscle group (e.g. the triceps) with four separate exercises performed in quick succession, often to failure and sometimes with the reduction of weight halfway through a set once muscle fatigue sets in. This form of intense training 'shocks' the muscles and as such, is usually performed by experienced trainers and should be used infrequently.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStrength training may involve the combining of different training methods such as weight training, plyometrics, bodyweight exercises, and ballistic exercises. This is often done in order to improve a person's ability to apply their strength quickly. Or in other words, to improve their ability to apply explosive power.\n\nLoaded plyometrics involve the addition of weights to jumping exercises. The weights may be held or worn. For instance, vertical jumps whilst holding a trap bar or jumping split squats whilst holding dumbbells. This helps to enhance the explosive power of the athlete.\n\nComplex training, also known as contrast training, involves the alternation of weight training and plyometric exercises. Ideally, both sets of exercises should move through similar ranges of movement; such a pairing is called a complex, or contrast, pair. For instance, a set of heavy back squats at about 85-95% 1RM followed by a set of jumping exercises. The intention is to utilise the intense nervous system activation and increased muscle fibre recruitment from the heavy lift in the plyometric exercise; thereby increasing the power with which it can be performed. Over a period of training, this may result in the athlete being able to perform the plyometric exercise more powerfully, without the requirement of the preceding heavy lift. Working on the same principles, a sports specific action may be incorporated instead of the plyometric exercise; the intention, in this case, being to increase the athlete's ability to perform the sports specific action more powerfully.\n\nBallistic training, sometimes referred to as power training, is based upon the principle of maximising the acceleration phase of the exercise and minimising the deceleration phase; this helps to improve the athlete's explosive power. On this basis, ballistic training may include exercises which involve the throwing of a weight, such as a medicine ball, or jumping whilst holding or wearing a weight.\n\nContrast loading is the alternation of heavy and light loads i.e. a heavy bench press set at about 85-95% 1RM followed by a light bench press set at about 30-60% 1RM. The heavy set should be performed fast with the light set being performed as fast as possible. The joints should not be locked as this inhibits muscle fibre recruitment and reduces the speed at which the exercise can be performed. A loaded plyometric exercise, or ballistic exercise, may take the place of the light lift.\n\nSimilarly to complex training, contrast loading relies on the intense nervous system activation and enhanced muscle fibre recruitment from the heavy lift to help improve the power with which the subsequent exercise can be performed. This physiological effect is commonly referred to as post-activation potentiation, or the PAP effect. By way of explanation, if a light weight is lifted, and then a heavy weight is lifted, and then the same light weight is lifted again, then the light weight will feel lighter the second time it is lifted. This is due to the increased PAP effect from the heavy lift allowing for greater power to be applied and thus making the subsequent lighter lift feel even lighter than before. Explosive power training programmes are frequently designed to specifically utilise the PAP effect.\n\nStrength training is a safe form of exercise when the movements are controlled, and carefully defined. Or some safety measures can also be taken before the training. However, as with any form of exercise, improper execution and the failure to take appropriate precautions can result in injury. A helmet, boots, gloves, and back belt can aide in injury prevention. Principles of weight training safety apply to strength training.\n\nBodybuilding is a sport in which the goal is to increase muscle size and definition. Bodybuilding increases the endurance of muscles, as well as strength, though not as much as if it were the primary goal. Bodybuilders compete in bodybuilding competitions, and use specific principles and methods of strength training to maximize muscular size and develop extremely low levels of body fat. In contrast, most strength trainers train to improve their strength and endurance while not giving special attention to reducing body fat below normal. Strength trainers tend to focus on compound exercises to build basic strength, whereas bodybuilders often use isolation exercises to visually separate their muscles, and to improve muscular symmetry. Pre-contest training for bodybuilders is different again, in that they attempt to retain as much muscular tissue as possible while undergoing severe dieting. However, the bodybuilding community has been the source of many strength training principles, techniques, vocabulary, and customs.\n\nIt is widely accepted that strength training must be matched by changes in diet in order to be effective. Although aerobic exercise has been proven to have an effect on the dietary intake of macronutrients, strength training has not and an increase in dietary protein is generally believed to be required for building skeletal muscle.\n\nA review of 49 research studies found that supplementation of protein in the diet of healthy adults increased the size and strength of muscles during prolonged resistance exercise training; protein intakes of greater than 1.6 g/kg/day did not additionally increase fat-free mass or muscle size or strength. Protein that is neither needed for cell growth and repair nor consumed for energy is converted into urea mainly through the deamination process and is excreted by the kidneys. It was once thought that a high-protein diet entails risk of kidney damage, but studies have shown that kidney problems only occur in people with previous kidney disease. However failure to properly hydrate can put an increased strain on the kidney's ability to function. An adequate supply of carbohydrates (5–7 g per kg) is also needed as a source of energy and for the body to restore glycogen levels in muscles.\n\nA light, balanced meal prior to the workout (usually one to two hours beforehand) ensures that adequate energy and amino acids are available for the intense bout of exercise. The type of nutrients consumed affects the response of the body, and nutrient timing whereby protein and carbohydrates are consumed prior to and after workout has a beneficial impact on muscle growth. Water is consumed throughout the course of the workout to prevent poor performance due to dehydration. A protein shake is often consumed immediately following the workout, because both protein uptake and protein usage are increased at this time. Glucose (or another simple sugar) is often consumed as well since this quickly replenishes any glycogen lost during the exercise period.\nTo maximise muscle protein anabolism, recovery drink should contain glucose (dextrose), protein (usually whey) hydrolysate containing mainly dipeptides and tripeptides, and leucine.\nSome weight trainers also take ergogenic aids such as creatine or steroids to aid muscle growth. However, the effectiveness of some products is disputed and others are potentially harmful.\n\nDue to the androgenic hormonal differences between males and females, the latter are generally unable to develop large muscles regardless of the training program used. Normally the most that can be achieved is a look similar to that of a fitness model. Muscle is denser than fat, so someone who builds muscle while keeping the same body weight will occupy less volume; if two people weigh the same (and are the same height) but have different lean body mass percentages, the one with more muscle will appear thinner.\n\nIn addition, though bodybuilding uses the same principles as strength training, it is with a goal of gaining muscle bulk. Strength trainers with different goals and programs will not gain the same mass as a professional bodybuilder.\n\nSome weight trainers perform light, high-repetition exercises in an attempt to \"tone\" their muscles without increasing their size.\n\nThe word tone derives from the Latin \"tonus\" (meaning \"tension\"). In anatomy and physiology, as well as medicine, the term \"muscle tone\" refers to the continuous and passive partial contraction of the muscles, or the muscles' resistance to passive stretching during resting state as determined by a deep tendon reflex. Muscle tonus is dependent on neurological input into the muscle. In medicine, observations of changes in muscle tonus can be used to determine normal or abnormal states which can be indicative of pathology. The common strength training term \"tone\" is derived from this use.\n\nWhat muscle builders refer to as a \"toned physique\" or \"muscle firmness\" is one that combines reasonable muscular size with moderate levels of body fat, qualities that may result from a combination of diet and exercise.\n\nMuscle tone or firmness is derived from the increase in actin and myosin cross filaments in the sarcomere. When this occurs the same amount of neurological input creates a greater firmness or tone in the resting continuous and passive partial contraction in the muscle.\n\nExercises of 6–12 reps cause hypertrophy of the sarcoplasm in slow-twitch and high-twitch muscle fibers, contributing to overall increased muscle bulk. This is not to be confused with myofibril hypertrophy which leads to strength gains. Both however can occur to an extent during this rep range. \"Even though most are of the opinion that higher repetitions are best for producing the desired effect of muscle firmness or tone, it is not.\" Low volume strength training of 5 repetitions or fewer will increase strength by increasing actin and myosin cross filaments thereby increasing muscle firmness or tone. The low volume of this training will inhibit the hypertrophy effect.\n\nLowered-calorie diets have no positive effect on muscle hypertrophy for muscle of any fiber type. They may, however, decrease the thickness of subcutaneous fat (fat between muscle and skin), through an overall reduction in body fat, thus making muscle striations more visible.\n\nExercises like sit-ups, or abdominal crunches, performs less work than whole-body aerobic exercises thereby expending fewer calories during exercise than jogging, for example.\n\nHypertrophy serves to maintain muscle mass, for an elevated basal metabolic rate, which has the potential to burn more calories in a given period compared to aerobics. This helps to maintain a higher metabolic rate which would otherwise diminish after metabolic adaption to dieting, or upon completion of an aerobic routine.\n\nWeight loss also depends on the type of strength training used. Weight training is generally used for bulking, but the bulking method will more than likely not increase weight because of the diet involved. However, when resistance or circuit training is used, because they are not geared towards bulking, women tend to lose weight more quickly. Lean muscles require calories to maintain themselves at rest, which will help reduce fat through an increase in the basal metabolic rate.\n\nUntil the 20th century, the history of strength training was very similar to the history of weight training. With the advent of modern technology, materials and knowledge, the methods that can be used for strength training have multiplied significantly.\n\nHippocrates explained the principle behind strength training when he wrote \"that which is used develops, and that which is not used wastes away\", referring to muscular hypertrophy and atrophy. Progressive resistance training dates back at least to Ancient Greece, when legend has it that wrestler Milo of Croton trained by carrying a newborn calf on his back every day until it was fully grown. Another Greek, the physician Galen, described strength training exercises using the halteres (an early form of dumbbell) in the 2nd century. Ancient Persians used the \"meels\", which became popular during the 19th century as the Indian club, and has recently made a comeback in the form of the clubbell.\n\nThe dumbbell was joined by the barbell in the latter half of the 19th century. Early barbells had hollow globes that could be filled with sand or lead shot, but by the end of the century these were replaced by the plate-loading barbell commonly used today.\n\nStrength training with isometric exercise was popularised by Charles Atlas from the 1930s onwards. The 1960s saw the gradual introduction of exercise machines into the still-rare strength training gyms of the time. Strength training became increasingly popular in the 1980s following the release of the bodybuilding movie \"Pumping Iron\" and the subsequent popularity of Arnold Schwarzenegger.\n\nOrthopaedic specialists used to recommend that children avoid weight training because the growth plates on their bones might be at risk. The very rare reports of growth plate fractures in children who trained with weights occurred as a result of inadequate supervision, improper form or excess weight, and there have been no reports of injuries to growth plates in youth training programs that followed established guidelines. The position of the National Strength and Conditioning Association is that strength training is safe for children if properly designed and supervised.\n\nYounger children are at greater risk of injury than adults if they drop a weight on themselves or perform an exercise incorrectly; further, they may lack understanding of, or ignore the safety precautions around weight training equipment. As a result, supervision of minors is considered vital to ensuring the safety of any youth engaging in strength training.\n\nStrength training is the fourth most popular form of fitness in Australia. Due to its popularity amongst all ages, there is great scepticism on what the appropriate age to commence strength training in young athletes is. Some points of the opposing view of strength training in young adolescence are stunted growth, health and bone problems in later stages of life and unhealthy eating habits. Studies by Australian experts that have been recognised by the Australian Institute of Sport (AIS) have debunked these myths. There is no link between any prolonged health risks and strength training in pre-adolescence if the procedures of strength training are followed correctly and under suitable supervision. Strength training for pre-adolescents should focus on skills and techniques. Children should only work on strengthening all the big muscle groups, using free weight and body weight movements with relatively light loads. The benefits of these practices include increased strength performance, injury prevention and learning good training principles.\n\nOlder adults are prone to loss of muscle strength. With more strength older adults have better health, better quality of life, better physical function and fewer falls. In cases in which an older person begins strength training, their doctor or health care provider may neglect to emphasize a strength training program which results in muscle gains. Under-dosed strength training programs should be avoided in favor of a program which matches the abilities and goals of the person exercising.\n\nIn setting up an exercise program for an older adult, they should go through a baseline fitness assessment to determine their current limits. Any exercise program for older adults should match the intensity, frequency, and duration of exercise that the person can perform. The program should have a goal of increased strength as compared to the baseline measurement.\n\nRecommended training for older adults is three times a week of light strength training exercises. Exercise machines are a commonly used equipment in a gym setting, including treadmills with exercises such as walking or light jogging. Home-based exercises should usually consist of body weight or elastic band exercises that maintain a low level of impact on the muscles. Weights can also be used by older adults if they maintain a lighter weight load with an average amount of repetitions (10–12 reps) with suitable supervision. It is important for older adults to maintain a light level of strength training with low levels of impact to avoid injuries.\n\nOlder people who exercise against a resistance or force become stronger . Progressive resistance training (PRT) also improves physical functioning in older people, including the performance of simple (e.g.: walking, climbing stairs, rising from a chair more quickly) and complex daily activities (e.g.: bathing, cooking). Caution is recommended when transferring PRT exercises for clinical populations, as adverse effects are unclear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34331701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34331701", "title": "The Ashes urn", "text": "The Ashes urn\n\nThe Ashes urn is a small urn made of terracotta and standing 11 cm high, believed to contain the ashes of a burnt cricket bail. It was presented to Ivo Bligh, the captain of the England cricket team, as a personal gift after a friendly match hosted at Rupertswood mansion in Sunbury during the 1882–83 tour in Australia. After his death the urn was presented to the Marylebone Cricket Club, which has it on display at Lord's cricket ground in London. The urn has come to be strongly associated with 'The Ashes', the prize for which England and Australia are said to compete in Test series between the two countries.\n\nOn 29 August 1882 Australia defeated England in a cricket match played at Kennington Oval, London. There was a great deal of dismay felt by the English about this loss and a few days later a mock obituary notice written by Reginald Shirley Brooks appeared in the Sporting Times which read:\n\n\"In affectionate remembrance of English Cricket which died at the Oval on 29 August 1882. Deeply lamented by a large circle of sorrowing friends and acquaintances. RIP. NB. The body will be cremated and the ashes taken to Australia.\" It was the first time the term 'the ashes' had been mentioned.\n\nIt had previously been arranged that a cricket team captained by Ivo Bligh would tour Australia in 1882-83 and this team became the English hope of victory. Before leaving England for Australia, Bligh pledged to bring back \"The Ashes of English cricket\".\n\nThree main Test matches were played. The first was in Melbourne and was won by Australia. The second was also in Melbourne and won by the English. The third match was in Sydney and was again won by the English. After this it was generally acknowledged that the English were the victors. \n\nAfter the conclusion of the Test series, a match was played in Sydney in which a United Australian Eleven defeated The Hon. Ivo Bligh's Eleven by four wickets. This seems to have given rise in Melbourne to some debate about whether it should have counted as a Fourth Test. However, \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" made it very clear that this game was not part of the international \"rubber\" which had in fact been won by England. There were also other matches played between the English and the individual State cricket teams over the tour.\n\nThe urn was made during the 1882-83 tour. It is a very small red terracotta artefact which some believe could be a perfume bottle. Two labels are pasted on it: the top label says \"The Ashes\"; the lower label is a verse cut out from \"Melbourne Punch\" magazine of 1 February 1883 which reads:\n\nThese names are some of the men in the English team. Many of them are shown in the pictures above.\n\nThere is also an associated red velvet bag with a Victor’s Olive Crown embroidered on it in yellow silk cotton with the emblem “1883” in the middle of it. This bag was made by Mrs Anne Fletcher, wife of the manager of the NSW team, in early 1883.\n\nReports have established that the estate of Rupertswood in Sunbury, Victoria is the birthplace of the Ashes urn legend. According to a 1908 newspaper report in the \"Hobart Mercury\", an unnamed writer from the \"Westminster Gazette\" recalled that a group of Melbourne ladies which included Janet, Lady Clarke, and Florence Morphy, presented \"a tiny silver urn, containing what they termed 'the ashes of Australian (\"sic\") cricket.'\" to The Hon. Ivo Bligh, captain of the English touring team after one of the three Tests in 1882-83.\nRupertswood was the home of Sir William Clarke and Janet, Lady Clarke. Sir William was president of the Melbourne Cricket Club. At Christmas 1882 and again at Easter 1883, the members of the English cricket team were his guests.\n\nA divergent story about the presentation of the urn is that on Christmas Eve, prior to the start of the three-test series, and after a friendly match between the English cricketers and a combination of staff and guests held at Rupertswood, the urn was presented by Lady Clarke to Bligh in a joking fashion. Also present on this occasion was the Clarkes' music teacher, Florence Morphy, who was later to marry Ivo Bligh.\n\nThere has been some disagreement with this version of events mainly because of three issues. Firstly the verse on the urn was not published in Punch until 1 February 1883 which is five weeks after the Christmas event. Secondly there are statements by both Lord Darnley and Lady Darnley that the presentation happened sometime after the Third Test. The Third Test finished in Sydney on 30 January 1883. Thirdly the accompanying red velvet bag made by Mrs Anne Fletcher, was not made until early 1883.\n\nJoy Munns has taken these problems into account and has concluded that there were two quite separate presentations of the same urn. It was presented firstly at Rupertswood at Christmas and was merely the perpetuation of a joke. The second and most documented event was at Easter (which was around 25 March 1883) at Rupertswood after all the formal matches had finished. On this occasion Joy Munns says the verse was pasted on the urn, it was placed in the red velvet bag and given to Bligh. Lady Clarke and Florence Morphy were both present on this occasion. This version of the presentation being in late March is supported by a statement made by Lord Darnley who said in 1921 that he was presented with the urn by \"some ladies of Melbourne after the final defeat of his team\". England in fact won the series 2-1. Bligh's 'final defeat' refers to a non-Test game in Melbourne on 12 March 1883 when they were defeated by the Victorian cricket team in the last formal match of the tour.\n\nOver Easter many of the English team were guests at Rupertswood and did not embark on the return voyage to England until 29 March. Ivo Bligh stayed for another five weeks during which time it is believed he became engaged to Florence Morphy. He sailed for England on 5 May but returned to Australia in February 1884. Four days after his arrival, on 9 February, he married Florence at St Mary's Church in Sunbury. The wedding breakfast was a very lavish affair at Rupertswood.\n\nAfter their honeymoon in Australia the couple went to England in August 1884 where they stayed at Cobham Hall in Kent. The English papers reported that Florence was warmly welcomed by the Bligh family on her arrival. They remained in England for the next 18 months and then returned to Melbourne in January 1886. It was reported at this time that they intended to stay in Australia for about one year because of Ivo Bligh’s health.\n\nIn Melbourne they lived in a house called Hazelwell in Powlett St East Melbourne and in November 1886 Florence had her first child. In March 1887 the couple returned to England and for some time lived at Cobham Hall. In 1890 Bligh had a position in the wine merchant firm of Morgan Brothers.\n\nIn 1900 after the death of his brother Bligh became the Earl of Darnley and inherited Cobham Hall. The Ashes urn remained at the Hall until Bligh’s death in 1927.\n\nLord Darnley had an interview in 1921 with Montague Grover, a well-known Australian journalist, at his home in Cobham Hall. Grover says that the urn was kept in Darnley’s den where all his other treasured cricket memorabilia were placed. He had numerous photos of the other team players on the wall as well as a leather-bound copy of the original account of the 1882-83 cricket tour of Australia.\n\nAfter Bligh’s death Florence presented the urn to the Marylebone Cricket Club in 1929. It was placed in the Long Room at the Lord’s Pavilion until 1953, when it was transferred to the Cricket Museum next to the Pavilion. A photo of the urn in the Long Room in 1929 is shown at the left.\n\nAfter the urn was first displayed at Lord's it produced a gradual change in the public perception of 'The Ashes'. In 1933 it was displayed in the National Sporting Trophies Exhibition in London with some of the world’s great sporting memorabilia. To the public the urn was becoming the image and symbol of 'The Ashes'.\n\nIt was not until after about 1950 that the cricket books and paraphernalia almost exclusively used representation of the urn to depict 'The Ashes'. From about 1989 images of the Australian Test cricketers with replicas of the urn appeared in the media.\n\nSince 1929 the urn has returned to Australia only twice – once when it was brought to Sydney for the Bicentenary Test Match in 1988 and secondly in 2006 for the tour of the Ashes Exhibition to each state capital of Australia.\n\nFrom Ambition to Ashes: The Clarkes of Rupertswood. \"Australian Heritage\", June 2003, pp 41–47.\n"}
{"id": "33070409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33070409", "title": "UEFA Champions League clubs performance comparison", "text": "UEFA Champions League clubs performance comparison\n\nThe comparison of the performances of all of the clubs that participated in UEFA Champions League is below. The qualifying rounds are not taken into account.\n\n"}
{"id": "42862324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42862324", "title": "UEFA Europa League clubs performance comparison", "text": "UEFA Europa League clubs performance comparison\n\nThe comparison of the performances of all of the clubs that participated in UEFA Europa League in its current format (2009–present) is below. The qualification rounds were not taken into account.\n\nClubs transferred from UEFA Champions League marked in italics.\n\nAs of the group stage of the 2018–19 season, a total of 209 clubs from 39 of 55 UEFA member associations have played in UEFA Europa League. Germany have sent the most clubs with 17, followed by Italy and England with 14 clubs each.\n\nNote: \"Italic\" means that the team came from the Champions League group stage.\n\nA total of 134 clubs from 28 national associations had played in UEFA Cup in 2004–09 format.\nNote: \"Italic\" means that the team came from the Champions League group stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1170065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170065", "title": "Underdog", "text": "Underdog\n\nAn underdog is a person or group in a competition, usually in sports and creative works, who is popularly expected to lose. The party, team, or individual expected to win is called the favorite or top dog. In the case where an underdog wins, the outcome is an upset. An \"underdog bet\" is a bet on the underdog or outsider for which the odds are generally higher.\n\nThe first recorded uses of the term occurred in the second half of the 18th century; its first meaning was \"the beaten dog in a fight\".\n\nIn [British and [Culture of the United States|American culture]], underdogs are highly regarded. This harkens to core Judeo-Christian parables such as the story of David and Goliath and also ancient British legends such as Robin Hood and King Arthur, and reflects the ideal behind the American dream, where someone who is poor and/or weak can use hard work to achieve victory. Underdogs are most valorized in sporting culture, both in real events, such as the Miracle on Ice, and in popular culture depictions of sports, where the trope is omnipresent. The idea is so common that even when teams are evenly matched, spectators and commentators are drawn to establishing one side as the underdog. Historian David M. Potter explained that underdogs are appealing to Americans not because they simply beat the odds, but overcome an injustice that explains those odds - such as the game being unfairly rigged due to privilege and power.\n\nIn a story, the Fool is often an underdog if they are the main character. Their apparent ineptitude leads to people underestimating their true abilities, and they are able to win either through luck or hidden wisdom against a more powerful, \"establishment\" villain. An example in film is The Tramp portrayed by Charlie Chaplin.\n\n"}
{"id": "3737971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3737971", "title": "Vacuum exercise", "text": "Vacuum exercise\n\nThe vacuum exercise is an exercise which involves contracting some internal abdominal muscles, primarily the transverse abdominal muscle, and not as much the diaphragm.\n\nRepetitions of the exercise may be used as a form of endurance training, and light strength training. There is difficulty building strength in the muscle, as it is not easy to apply resistance training to the deeper internal muscles.\n\nThe reasons for performing this exercise vary. It has been done for aesthetic purposes in bodybuilding competitions (to suck the abdomen in, making it appear less bulgy). It can be done to enhance overall core stability and strength. It is used in belly dance to actively perform flutters, engaging various fibres in the muscle selectively. Some believe the pressures it exerts upon the intestines are an aid to digestion. It is used in reverse breathing upon exhalation.\n\nPeople may also sometimes contract these muscles in public to reduce the appearance of their abdomen, consciously or unconsciously. \"Sucking in\" the stomach to appear thinner may be most common form of this exercise, but with little of the intensity or long-term purpose of the other forms.\n\nIn performing a vacuum (activating the transverse abdominis), one draws one's bellybutton inward, toward the spine. Some perform a vacuum in conjunction with bending over, reaching overhead, or when lifting heavy weights, although the benefit and healthiness of this is disputed (some advocated just tensing the midsection, with primary focus more so on the lower back). Increasing the range of motion (how far it is drawn in), the intensity (very little can be done, other than resisting gravity) or the duration are the methods of making the muscles stronger. Performing flutters or Tabata intervals of high intensity and rest similar to kegel exercises is also common. It may also be possible to vary the pressures by contorting the body or exerting various pressures on tissues connected to the transversus abdominis, although how this might be done is currently unknown.\n\nPeople who are predisposed to inguinal herniation should avoid this exercise as it increases intra abdominal pressure.\n\nIn the Hatha yoga asanas known as cat stretch and Adho Mukha Svanasana, the exercise can be performed while on all-Fours so that the muscles must resist gravity, making a slight difference in the resistance required.\n\nThe pranayama known as kapalabhati involves exhaling powerfully and rapidly a number of times while sitting with the legs crossed in a meditation Adana.This is known as Breath of Fire in Kundalini yoga.\n\nSat Kriya is fundamental to Kundalini yoga and could be practiced on its own every day for at least 3 minutes. \nA method of developing long-term daily endurance in the muscles is to tie a string around the waist at the bellybutton level. The string is tied at 3/4 of one's maximum vacuum point. The string should be tight, but not noticeably cutting into the skin. When the transverse abdominis relaxes, the abdominal wall (belly) expands and the string will tighten for immediate feedback, reminding the user to contract the TA.\n\nHypopressive exercises also involve the transverse abdominal, but they are based upon reflex contraction of the abdominal wall, rather than voluntary contractions that are a feature of traditional abdominal exercises. The significance of this is thought to be that hypopressive exercises increase the base tone of the abdominal wall (as well as the pelvic floor) and hence reduce resting waist circumference.\n"}
{"id": "58360668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58360668", "title": "Vladislav Blintsov", "text": "Vladislav Blintsov\n\nVladislav Blintsov (born 5 April 1996) is a Russian sprint canoeist.\n\nHe participated at the 2018 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships.\n"}
{"id": "50708358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50708358", "title": "Xiaomi Mi Band 2", "text": "Xiaomi Mi Band 2\n\nThe Xiaomi Mi Band 2 is a low cost, wearable activity tracker produced by Xiaomi. It was released on 7 June, 2016. Unlike its predecessor, the Xiaomi Mi Band 2 comes with an OLED screen and a capacitive button. In September of 2017, Xiaomi released an ultra low-cost version of the Mi Band 2, titled \"Mi Band - HRX Edition\"\n\nOn May 31st, 2018, Xiaomi released the Mi Band 3, the successor to the Mi Band 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33123754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33123754", "title": "Youth sports", "text": "Youth sports\n\nYouth sport (British English) or youth athletics (American English) is any sports event where competitors are younger than adult age, whether children or adolescents. Youth sport includes school sport at primary and secondary level, as well as sport played outside the education system, whether informally or organized.\n\nIn sports studies and public policy contexts, an age limit of 18 (the age of majority) is usual in discussing \"youth sport\". Not all sports governing bodies define \"youth\" as \"under-18\": while the Youth Olympic Games and the FA Youth Cup are for under-18s, the LEN Junior Water Polo European Championship is for under-17s. Many youth sport programmes have multiple age levels, for example under-8, under-10, under-12, etc. It is not, however, only underage sport that may be considered as \"youth\" sport; for example, the existence of the World Rowing U23 Championships recognises that adults aged 18–22 have not yet reached peak condition.\n\nSport is one of the most popular activities among youth all over the world. The most popular sports are association football and swimming. In 2008, a United Nations-sponsored report on \"Sport for Development and Peace\" stated:\n\nAccording to WinterGreen Research, the size of the U.S. youth sports market has grown 55 percent since 2010 and is a $15.3 billion market in 2017.\n\nParticipation in organized sports during childhood and adolescence has important benefits for physical, psychological, and social health. Sport based youth development programs outside of school promote a wide range of learning and life skill development. Involvement in youth athletics encourages youth to live a healthy and happy lifestyle, foregoing the common issues many youth face such as obesity and depression. However, sport involvement goes beyond health, other benefits allow them to form and strengthen affective relationships, teach youth to value self-improvement over winning, how to be competitive in a competitive society, and to work culturally with different peers and authorities. In the classroom, high school student-athletes are far less likely to drop out of school and 15% more likely to attend college.\n\nThe practice of sport fosters young people's physical and emotional health and builds valuable social connections. It also offers opportunities for play and self -expression especially for those young people with few other opportunities. Sport also acts as a healthy alternative to harmful actions such as drug abuse, and involvement in crime. Beyond the individual, sport involvement cuts barriers that divide societies, making it a powerful tool to support conflict prevention both symbolically on the global level and practically within communities.\n\nThe number of dropouts reaches a peak in the adolescent years and the most important reason for not playing sport are “not having enough time,” “no interest anymore,” and “other leisure activities”.\n\nNegative experiences can be created through a sport that is overly focused on competition and winning at all costs or that fails to place the healthy development of youth at the center of the experience. Such negative experiences may result in a young person's low self-esteem, involve them in negative relationships, encourage poor sportsmanship, permit aggression and violence, allow racism, perpetuate gender discrimination, or expose them to psychological, sexual and commercial exploitation and abuse. Many of these negative experiences can be avoided when parents and coaches are chosen carefully, ensuring that programs offer a positive development experience for youth.\n\nInjuries have always been of concern in terms of sport but youth are much more susceptible to injury considering both their immature musculoskeletal system and increasingly high intensity training. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, participation in organized sports is on the rise. Nearly 30 million children and adolescents participate in youth sports just in the United States. This high rise in sport participation has led to some startling statistics, high school athletes account for an estimated 2 million injuries, 500,000 doctor visits, and 30,000 hospitalizations each year. The most common types of sports-related injuries among youth are sprains, muscle strains, bone or growth plate injuries, and overuse injuries.\n\nEarly sports specialization has long been typical among children and teenagers in gymnastics, swimming, diving and figure skating, especially if they have aspirations of being competitive at elite levels. Undeniably, the main purpose for athletes to specialize in sport is to become a better player in order to increase their chances of making it to the big leagues or to become an elite athlete. Unfortunately, the data does not prove that specializing as a youth will be enough to make a child into a successful athlete later on (Latorre-Roman, Pinillos, & Robles, 2018). Youth athletes that are considered less specialized have been found to exhibit more all around athleticism and other advantages that specialized athletes do not benefit. (Rugg, Kador, Feley, & Pandya, 2018). Studies have supported that decreasing specialization at a young age will lower the rates of injuries for the players while increasing playing times and length of careers compared to athletes who specialized as a youth (Rugg, Kador, Feley, & Pandya, 2018). Still, sport specializers tend to dramatically outweigh those who stayed multi sport athletes because of the standards people place on sports and how valuable a sports career can be. As youth athletes exhibit skills at higher levels than there peers at a young age, parents, coaches, and the athletes themselves tend to focus on that sport in order to take advantage of their natural skills. parents, coaches, and athletes should know that showing promise in sport from a young age does not guarantee future success as competition levels rise and the athlete develops as a person (Latorre-Roman, Pinillos, & Robles, 2018).\n\nNoting that specializing in a sport at a young age by no means guarantees success, it is most important understand that sport specialization in youth can lead to higher injury rates throughout ones sports career (Mcguine et al., 2017). Research has found that high school athletes that specialize in one sport are more likely to be injured than athletes that play multiple sports (Mcguine et al., 2017) .Further, students who were classified to play moderate amount of sports were found to have less injuries than those who specialized in only one (McGuine et al., 2017) This helps to emphasize the importance of sport diversity in youth athletes and its impact on preventing injuries. Looking at sport specialization more in depth, researchers have suggested that athletes, coaches, and parents monitor the weekly, monthly, and yearly participation rates for youth athletes in a single sport (Post et al., 2017) It is generally recognized that athletes should not participate in more than 8 months worth of intense sport practice and no more than an athletes age in hours of practice a week (post et al., 2017). Also, experts recommend that all athletes engage in a wide variety of athletic activities, including unstructured athletic activities such as playing outside, until at least the age of 15.\"\"'\n\nIn response to the evidence of negative experiences in sport for many youth, especially low-income youth, youth of color, overweight youth, and LGBTQ youth, sports-based youth development (SBYD) emerged. Sports-based youth development is a theory and practice model for programs to place the mental and physical health of a youth over their athletic success. Programs that use SBYD to define program activities and train staff members generally provide free or reduced-cost programming to reduce the barriers low-income youth face when playing sports. These programs are typically found in low-income and under-served neighborhoods, but any sports coach or sports program can apply SBYD principles.\n\nGlobal South nations tend to have less access to organized sports because the politics of their countries do not have the resources to have leisure and entertainment influence their lives. Children in Global South nations have less opportunity to attend school where majority of organized sport takes place. Sport programs within the community provide children marginalized by poverty, gender, disability, family dissolution, ethno-cultural background and conflict with family, crime and other lack of opportunity.\n\nIn Global North nations, the evolving and complex youth sport system requires significant resources such as time, access, and money to develop as an athlete and play competitively. The financial costs involved in facilitating organized sport at an elite level ranges from an average of a few thousand dollars per year, to more than 20,000 dollars per year in some sports. For these financial reasons, participation is not feasible for a majority of kids growing up in lower income families.\n\nIn recent years, youth sports have become more expensive in the United States. The financial burden of organized sports has grown, and children from low-income families are less likely to participate. The single greatest predictor of whether a child will start playing organized sports young, is whether their household income exceeds $100,000 per year.\n\nGender conditioning often starts at an early age where boys and girls are taught behave differently and participate in certain activities. While there is no doubt that girls' sport participation has skyrocketed in recent decades, a gender inequality in youth sports still exists. The \"separate but equal\" ideal of gender in youth sports is very much prevalent in society and its contradictions inherent a strategy that pushes for both individual equal opportunity and categorical separation of the sexes. Team sport participation peaks at age 11 and participation in sport by girls are high and continuing to increase. However, frequent participation by both boys and girls in team sports is declining.\n\nGirls are more likely to enter sport later than boys and are more likely to take part in cheerleading, dance, competitive jump roping and volleyball while boys tend to stick with more traditional sports such as baseball, basketball and football. No matter the sport, the benefits of participating remain. With this said, the gender gap in the global south is much larger than that of the global north based on significant power relations and religious beliefs, specifically within Muslim communities in countries like Bosnia, Egypt, Morocco, Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey. For many, religion is a way of life in which sporting and educational institutions are culturally constructed by cultural and religious dynamics, as well as political, social, and economic factors.\n\nThe gap between participation in sport in the global south and the global north can be due to a shortage of physical education, a lack of financing, few sport facilities and little equipment and no capacity to host major sporting event in the global south. Other limitations for people living in certain countries may include a lack of accessible transportation, education and lack of understanding of the sport. There are also several social and cultural barriers faced by youth living in the global south that impact sport participation. A few of these are religion, culture and language.\n\nThere are typically two types of youth sport programs. One is sponsored by schools and the other is sponsored by city recreational departments and agencies. Generally school sponsored programs have qualified coaches and dedicated facilities for their sports but that is not always the case. Requirements for coaches for school sponsored programs vary from state to state, but the standard for the head coach of a major sport is usually a teaching certificate, with some coaching experience and training. Non-school youth sports programs operate in a different way and use volunteers as coaches. They have to find places to practice such as open gyms. Youths in these programs are assigned or drafted to different teams depending on the program.\n\nThe Sport for Development and Peace organization was found in research by Simon Darnell to have positive outcomes on the twelve-year-old boys participating in the program by promoting time management and personal responsibility. This helped the boys fit into the goals of self-regulation required in neoliberal societies. The nature of sport in itself also showcased leaders and those willing to make sacrifices for the sake of their team and also their families.\n\nThe Culture, Education, Sport and Ethics program (CESEP) is an international outreach initiative to engage teachers and student from different countries and cultures in the dialogue of healthy sport. This program seeks to create collaboration among teachers, students under 18, and counselors to exchange ideas about sports and culture in an educational program.\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's Sports for Hope program, located in Lusaka, Zambia, enhances national sports development through organized sports competitions, camps and clinics. They organize seminars for coaches and sports administrators as well as community development services. The program has an educational component about important societal issues, including girls’ empowerment, civic participation, HIV/AIDS, malaria and other health issues for athletes and the general public. The center offers indoor and outdoor sports fields, lockers, a gym, a boxing hall, classrooms and a variety of sports.\n\nYouth Athletics were played and were popular in 20th-century America. In an attempt to “energize America’s youth and transform its fledgling bodies into healthy future citizens” recreation facilities for youth were created. Muscular Christianity was based on the philosophy of sports and exercise strengthening the body which was the shelter of the soul. This philosophy shaped the creation of YMCA programs across America. This led to the invention of basketball and volleyball in the late 19th Century. Also, the YMCA had a female counterpart, the YWCA. The social gospel movement, “found sports to be a useful tool to draw inner-city youth to their churches, which often housed gymnasiums.” The social gospel movement lead to the creation of settlement houses, where middle-class men and women would study the social problems of the neighbourhood and attempt to fix them. The best known settlement house was Hull house in Chicago which had a community institution which attempted to Americanize immigrants. At Hull house, “they also provided a gym and sponsored athletic teams for both boys and girls, both as part of the acculturation process and the broader goal of improving the social, mental and physical well-being of inner-city residents.\n\nSocial agencies such as the YMCA and YWCA, as well as Boys and Girls Clubs, and Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, provided most of the organized sports to youth in America prior to 1954. While athletics was encouraged by the social gospel movement, youth sports were often organized by youth themselves through the social agencies. This shifted to adults organizing youth sports programs, which was exemplified with the advent of Little League Baseball by Carl Stotz. Little League Baseball was formed in 1939, with a three team league, while in 1954, there were 70,000 participants. Evidently, organized youth athletics grew rapidly throughout the 20th century in America. There were multiple reasons to support youth athletics programs, but one that was mostly agreed upon was “the notion of providing wholesome, character-building activities to occupy the leisure time of children and youth, to enable them to make the transition from childhood to adulthood.”\n\nWithin the 20th century, youth athletics were supported for their many believed positive aspects on youth culture. This included the fact that many believed participation in youth athletics would decrease delinquency. In 1965 Coleman wrote, “if it were not for inter-scholastic athletics or something like it, the rebellion against school, the rate of drop-out, and the delinquency of boys might be far worse than they presently are.” Also, youth athletics were a way for Jewish immigrants to disprove the stereotypes that they were bookish and weak in the early 20th century. Some Jews pursued professional careers in sports, which provided young Jewish Americans with role models who showed, “the possibility and benefits of assimilation,” which encouraged more participation in youth athletics. Catholic youths were interested in youth sports to, “demonstrate patriotism and morality.” Overall, both Catholics and Jews were attracted to youth athletics, to “demonstrate American-ness and experience a sense of belonging in the United States.” As well as physical fitness, sports were also seen as a way to increase social and moral development in youth. However, there remained some believed negative aspects of youth athletics. This included the fact that, “premature sports insolvent may result in undesirable emotional consequences for children.” The stress placed on youths during sports could lead to frustration, discouragement and low self-esteem.\n\nRace has played a role within youth sports as it has enforced racial segregation, but it has also given opportunities to racial minorities. In some ways, youth sports perpetrated segregation, as schools were segregated in the early 20th century. Within African American neighbourhoods in America, there was not the same level of public and private sports facilities as in other neighbourhoods. However, the streets and vacant lots became centres for youth sports. Segregation and prejudice kept African Americans out of sports facilities, but sports also played a positive role. While schools and subsequently sports teams were created out of segregation, athletics could bring success and accomplishment to schools. Sports were ways that members of the African- American community could gain self- esteem and a sense of community.\n\nYouth sports were an important way of life for Native Americans within boarding schools. Sports for Native Americans living in boarding schools were so important that they were on a similar level of importance as work and teaching. School sports such as track and field, basketball, and wrestling were activities that some Native Americans felt pride in when they participated. This pride was created by the appeal of competition and success, especially against white teams. Former resident of a boarding school for Native Americans, Jeff McCloud's experiences in sports, \"helped him to critically read the pain and degradation of contemporary life on and off Indian reservations as something other than a flaw in Native American character or the inevitable outcome of historical progress.\" Through these experiences, sport could be a positive aspect of the lives of Native Americans.\n\nFemale youth athletics was advocated for in the early 20th century because it was, “believed that sports improved young women’s health and beauty, promoted self-confidence, and offered a source of enjoyment.” However, girls' sports was not supported by all Americans as some believed it would lead to injuries and girls acting too aggressive and manly. During the early parts of the 20th century, some people felt that sport might reduce a girl's femininity and produce too much competitiveness. Some sports, such as basketball, were modified for girls' play. These modifications included eliminating physical contact and playing half-court games to limit exhaustion. American girls participated in more organized sports after the passage of Title IX in 1972 as they gained more opportunities to do so. It has been stated that, “among the many forms of sexism in sports, perhaps the most pervasive and devastating is the lack of equal opportunities for girls to compete in programs similar to those offered for boys.” Girls' participation remained much lower than that of boys, but it increased “from 32 percent of the male’s participation in 1973-74 to 63 percent in 1994-95.” While there are barriers to girls' participation in sports, it grew sizeably in the 20th century.\n\nYouth athletics also affected the lives of boys as it could be used to define masculinity. Sports were a way to promote bravery, and were tied to masculinity through Muscular Christianity. Sports were even thought to reduce degeneracy as boys were thought to be becoming less brave than their forefathers by some. Betty DeBerg believes that gender divisions increased as some feared that industrialization and city life were changing gender roles. Sports were thought to be a way to increase masculinity in boys and to perpetrate social divisions. Furthermore, the masculine aspect of sports perpetrated through the 20th century, has continued an idea of homophobia. Eric Anderson states, \"in a time of greatly decreasing cultural and institutional homophobia, institutions of sport have remained steadfast in their production of a homophobic and conservative gender ideology.\" In 1997, a high school football player wrote that he faced, \"victimization and personal distress over the profusion of homophobia within his sport...\" This homophobic environment lead to depression for the victim. The heightened idea of masculinity has allowed homophobia to also permeate sports. Youth sports within the 20th century enforced masculinity on boys, as well as created an environment filled with homophobia.\n\n\n"}
