{"id": "38802902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38802902", "title": "ATLASerials", "text": "ATLASerials\n\nATLASerials (ATLAS) is an online full-text collection of major religion and theology journals used by libraries, librarians, religion scholars, theologians, and clergy. Created by the American Theological Library Association (ATLA) and updated monthly, the database indexes journal articles and bibliographic citations, featuring PDFs, with searchable texts of articles and reviews, related to a wide range of scholarly fields related to religion. The database is available on a subscription basis through a database aggregator.\n\nThe total database includes over 588,000 article citations from over 330 journals.\n\nThe database indexes scholarly works on major world religions. Some records cover articles as far back as the 19th century. ATLA claims full coverage for core journals back to 1949. \n\nScholarly fields with significant degrees of coverage include:\n\n"}
{"id": "12701242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12701242", "title": "Abathar Muzania", "text": "Abathar Muzania\n\nAbathar Muzania is a demiurge mentioned in the literature of Mandaeism. He is described as having the responsibility of weighing the souls of the deceased to determine their worthiness using a weighing scale. He is also described as being the angel of Polaris.\n\n"}
{"id": "1746820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1746820", "title": "Arabic Bayán", "text": "Arabic Bayán\n\nThe Arabic Bayán is a book written by the Báb around 1848. Its larger sister book is the \"Persian Bayán\". The work is incomplete, containing only eleven Vahids. Each Vahid serves as a chapter and contains nineteen Abwab. The grammar is highly irregular. The work was composed while the Báb was imprisoned in Maku, Iran.\n"}
{"id": "279597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=279597", "title": "Bilocation", "text": "Bilocation\n\nBilocation, or sometimes multilocation, is an alleged psychic or miraculous ability wherein an individual or object is located (or appears to be located) in two distinct places at the same time.\n\nThe concept has been used in a wide range of historical and philosophical systems, ranging from early Greek philosophy to modern religious stories, occultism and magic.\n\nThe concept of bilocation has appeared in early Greek philosophy, shamanism, paganism, folklore, occultism, magic, the paranormal,\nHinduism (as one of the siddhis), spiritualism, Theosophy, the New Age and mysticism in general, as well as Christian mysticism and Jewish mysticism.\n\nSeveral Christian saints, monks and Muslim sufis are said to have exhibited bilocation. Among the earliest is the apparition of Our Lady of the Pillar in the year 40. St Isidore the Farmer claimed to be praying or attending to Mass in Church while at the same time plowing in the fields.\n\nOther Christian figures said to have experienced bilocation include St. Alphonsus Marie De'Liguori (Founder of Redemptorist Congregation), St. Anthony of Padua, Ursula Micaela Morata, St. Gerard Majella, Charles of Mount Argus, Padre Pio, St. Severus of Ravenna, St. Ambrose of Milan, María de Ágreda, and St. Martin de Porres, and María de León Bello y Delgado.\n\nIn the Coptic Church, Saints Yostos El Antony and Pope Cyril VI of Alexandria were claimed to bilocate in the 20th century.\n\nIn the 17th century, persons accused of witchcraft were reported to appear in dreams and visions of witnesses. The trials at Bury St. Edmunds and Salem included this \"spectral evidence\" against defendants. Matthew Hopkins described the phenomenon in his book \"The Discovery of Witches\".\n\nThe English occultist Aleister Crowley was reported by acquaintances to have the ability, even though he said he was not conscious of its happening at the time.\n\nBilocation figures heavily in David Lynch's film \"Lost Highway\" (1997) and Thomas Pynchon's novel \"Against the Day\" (2006). Bilocation also plays a part in the Christopher Priest novel \"The Prestige\".\n\nA mystical story that involved Soviet author Yevgeny Petrov served as inspiration for the film \"Envelope\" (2012) starring Kevin Spacey.\n\nSkeptical investigator Joe Nickell has written that there is no scientific evidence that bilocation is a real phenomenon and that cases are often from anecdotal reports that cannot be verified. Nickell listed self-delusion, hoaxing and illusion to explain alleged cases of bilocation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8646256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8646256", "title": "Buber-Rosenzweig-Medal", "text": "Buber-Rosenzweig-Medal\n\nThe Buber-Rosenzweig-Medaille is an annual prize awarded since 1968 by the Deutscher Koordinierungsrat der Gesellschaften für Christlich-Jüdische Zusammenarbeit\n(DKR; German Coordinating Council of Societies for Christian-Jewish Cooperation) to individuals, initiatives, or institutions, which have actively contributed to Christian–Jewish understanding. Forty-four different societies belong to the DKR. The name of the prize honors the memory of the Austrian-Jewish philosopher, translator, and educator Martin Buber (1878–1965) and the German-Jewish theologian Franz Rosenzweig (1886–1929). In its inaugural year, the prize was granted to both the historian Friedrich Heer (\"Gottes erste Liebe\"; \"God's First Love\") and the Protestant theologian Friedrich-Wilhelm Marquardt (\"Die Entdeckung des Judentums für die christliche Theologie: Israel im Denken Karl Barths\"; \"The Discovery of Judaism for Christian Theology: Israel in the Thought of Karl Barths\").\n\nZentralkomitee der deutschen Katholiken, Bonn\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4186421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4186421", "title": "Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam", "text": "Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam\n\nThe Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam (CDHRI) is a declaration of the member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation adopted in Cairo, Egypt, on 5 August 1990, (Conference of Foreign Ministers, 9–14 Muharram 1411H in the Islamic calendar) which provides an overview on the Islamic perspective on human rights, and affirms Islamic sharia as its sole source. CDHRI declares its purpose to be \"general guidance for Member States [of the OIC] in the field of human rights\".\n\nThis declaration is widely acknowledged as an Islamic response to the United Nations's Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), adopted in 1948. It guarantees many of the same rights as the UDHR and serves as a living document of human rights guidelines prescribed for all members of the OIC (Organization of Islamic Cooperation) to follow, but restricts them explicitly to the limits set by the sharia. This greatly restricts rights with respect to the Universal Declaration, since for example, women and members of other religions do not have the same rights as men under sharia, and that freedom of expression can be severely limited for religious reasons: for example, blasphemy can even now be punishable by death, in clear opposition to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nVarious Muslim countries had criticized the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights for its failure to take into account the cultural and religious context of non-Western countries. In 1981, Said Rajaie-Khorassani—the post-revolutionary Iranian representative to the UN—articulated the position of his country regarding the UDHR, by saying that it was a relativistic \"secular understanding of the Judeo-Christian tradition\", which could not be implemented by Muslims without trespassing Islamic law.\n\nThe CDHRI was adopted in 1990 by members of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. It has been signed by 45 states so far. In 1992, the CDHRI was presented to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, where it was strongly condemned by the International Commission of Jurists.\n\nThe Declaration starts by saying \"All human beings form one family whose members are united by their subordination to Allah and descent from Adam.\" and it forbids \"discrimination on the basis of race, colour, language, belief, sex, religion, political affiliation, social status or other considerations\". It goes on to proclaim the sanctity of life, and declares the \"preservation of human life\" to be \"a duty prescribed by the Shariah\". The CDHRI also guarantees non-belligerents—such as old men, women and children, the wounded and sick, and prisoners of war—the right to food, shelter, and access to safety and medical treatment in times of war.\n\nThe CDHRI affords women \"equal human dignity\", \"own rights to enjoy\", \"duties to perform\", \"own civil entity\", \"financial independence\", and the \"right to retain her name and lineage\". Both men and women are given the \"right to marriage\" regardless of their race, colour, or nationality. The Declaration makes it incumbent upon both parents to protect the child, both before and after birth, while stressing that the husband is responsible for the social and financial protection of his family, including any children and wives. \n\nThe Declaration recognises the rights to property and privacy for the individuals. The Article 18 (b) says that \"Everyone shall have the right to privacy in the conduct of his private affairs, in his home, among his family, with regard to his property and his relationships. It is not permitted to spy on him, to place him under surveillance or to besmirch his good name. The State shall protect him from arbitrary interference\". It forbids the demolition and confiscation of any family's residence and the eviction of the family. Furthermore, should the family get separated in times of war, it is the responsibility of the state to \"arrange visits or reunions of families\".\n\nArticle 10 of the Declaration states: \"Islam is the religion of unspoiled nature. It is prohibited to exercise any form of compulsion on man or to exploit his poverty or ignorance in order to convert him to another religion or to atheism.\" Since in Islamic society all reasons for conversion away from Islam are considered to be essentially either compulsion or ignorance, this effectively forbids conversion away from Islam.\n\nThe Declaration protects each individual from arbitrary arrest, torture, maltreatment, or indignity. Furthermore, no individual is to be used for medical or scientific experiments without his consent or at the risk of his health or of his life. It also prohibits the taking of hostages of any individual \"for any purpose whatsoever\". Moreover, the CDHRI guarantees the presumption of innocence; guilt is only to be proven through a trial in \"which he [the defendant] shall be given all the guarantees of defence\". The Declaration also forbids the promulgation of \"emergency laws that would provide executive authority for such actions\". Article 19 stipulates that there are no other crimes or punishments than those mentioned in the sharia. Sharia allows corporal punishment (whipping, amputation) and capital punishment by stoning or decapitation. The right to hold public office can only be exercised in accordance with the sharia.\n\nThe Declaration also emphasizes the \"full right to freedom and self-determination\", and its opposition to enslavement, oppression, exploitation, and colonialism. The CDHRI declares the rule of law, establishing \"equality and justice for all\", with the limitations provided under Islamic law. The CDHRI also guarantees all individuals the \"right to participate, directly or indirectly in the administration of his country's public affairs\". The CDHRI also forbids any abuse of authority \"subject to the Islamic Shariah.\"\n\nArticle 22(a) of the Declaration states that \"Everyone shall have the right to express his opinion freely in such manner as would not be contrary to the principles of the Shariah.\" Article 22(b) states that \"Everyone shall have the right to advocate what is right, and propagate what is good, and warn against what is wrong and evil according to the norms of Islamic Shariah.\" Article 22(c) states: \"Information is a vital necessity to society. It may not be exploited or misused in such a way as may violate sanctities and the dignity of Prophets, undermine moral and ethical values or disintegrate, corrupt or harm society, or weaken its faith.\" This is an explicit restriction on the freedom to make any statement which might be considered blasphemous, the penalty for the making of which might be death and as such the wording of this clause allows the death penalty for blasphemy in clear contravention of the UDHR. Article 22(d) states that \"It is not permitted to arouse nationalistic or doctrinal hatred or to do anything that may be an incitement to any form of racial discrimination.\"\n\nAlthough the CDHRI uses a universalist language akin to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, \"quite a number of [its] features express an Islamic particularity.\" The preamble is mostly religious rhetoric, and the particulars of the CDHRI contain numerous references to the Quran, sharia, and aspects of the Islamic faith that appear on no other similar international list. The CDHRI concludes in Articles 24 and 25 that all rights and freedoms mentioned are subject to the Islamic sharia, which is the declaration's sole source. The CDHRI declares true religion to be the \"guarantee for enhancing such dignity along the path to human integrity\". It also places the responsibility for defending those rights upon the entire Ummah.\n\nThe CDHRI has been criticized for being implemented by a set of states with widely disparate religious policies and practices who had \"a shared interest in disarming international criticism of their domestic human rights record.\"\n\nArticle 24 of the declaration states: \"All the rights and freedoms stipulated in this Declaration are subject to the Islamic Sharia.\" Article 19 also says: \"There shall be no crime or punishment except as provided for in the Sharia.\"\n\nThe CDHRI has been criticised for failing to guarantee freedom of religion, in particular the right of each and every individual to change their religion, as a \"fundamental and non-derogable right\". In a joint written statement submitted by the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU), a non-governmental organization in special consultative status, the Association for World Education (AWE) and the Association of World Citizens (AWC), a number of concerns were raised that the CDHRI limits human rights, religious freedom, and freedom of expression. The statement concludes that \"The Cairo Declaration of Human Rights in Islam is clearly an attempt to limit the rights enshrined in the UDHR and the International Covenants. It can in no sense be seen as complementary to the Universal Declaration.\" In September 2008, in an article to the United Nations, the Center for Inquiry writes that the CDHRI \"undermines equality of persons and freedom of expression and religion by imposing restrictions on nearly every human right based on Islamic Sharia law.\"\n\nRhona Smith writes that, because of the CDHRI's reference to Shariah, it implies an inherent degree of superiority of men.\n\nAdama Dieng—a member of the International Commission of Jurists—has also criticised the CDHRI. He argued that the declaration gravely threatens the inter-cultural consensus on which the international human rights instruments are based; that it introduces intolerable discrimination against non-Muslims and women. He further argued that the CDHRI reveals a deliberately restrictive character in regard to certain fundamental rights and freedoms, to the point that certain essential provisions are below the legal standards in effect in a number of Muslim countries; it uses the cover of the \"Islamic sharia (Law)\" to justify the legitimacy of practices, such as corporal punishment, which attack the integrity and dignity of the human being.\n\nIn 2009, the journal \"Free Inquiry\" summarized the criticism of the Cairo Declaration in an editorial: \"We are deeply concerned with the changes to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by a coalition of Islamic states within the United Nations that wishes to prohibit any criticism of religion and would thus protect Islam's limited view of human rights. In view of the conditions inside the Islamic Republic of Iran, Egypt, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, Bangdalesh, Iraq, and Afghanistan, we should expect that at the top of their human rights agenda would be to rectify the legal inequality of women, the suppression of political dissent, the curtailment of free expression, the persecution of ethnic minorities and religious dissenters—in short, protecting their citizens from egregious human rights violations. Instead, they are worrying about protecting Islam.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "576308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=576308", "title": "Candomblé Jejé", "text": "Candomblé Jejé\n\nCandomblé Jejé, also known as Brazilian Vodum, is one of the major branches (\"nations\") of Candomblé. It developed in the Portuguese Empire among Fon and Ewe slaves. Jejé is a Yoruba word meaning \"stranger\", which is what the Fon and Ewe slaves represented to the Yoruba slaves.\n\nJejé spirits are called \"Vodums\" (sing. \"Vodum\"). According to tradition, they were introduced into the Kingdom of Dahomey from nearby lands by its founder King Adja-Tado, on the advice of a \"bokono\" (seer). Their cult was reorganized and uniformized by King Agajah in the 18th century.\n\nJejé Vodums are sometimes cultuated in houses of other nations by different names. For instance, the Vodum Dan or Bessen is called Oxumarê in Candomblé Ketu. Conversely, the Ketu Orixás may be cultuated in Jejé houses, but retain their names.\n\nVoduns are organized into families:\n\n"}
{"id": "6073156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6073156", "title": "Church of Cognizance", "text": "Church of Cognizance\n\nThe Church of Cognizance (COC) was founded in 1991 by Danuel & Mary Quaintance in Graham County (Pima) Arizona, United States.\n\nIn 1994, the Quaintances recorded a 16-page \"Declaration of Religious Sentiment\" concretizing the establishment of their church. The COC Founders recording announced their intent to unite the world's ethnic minorities that utilize and rely upon the cannabis hemp plant as an ethno-socio-religious institution following Neo-Zoroastrian tenets.\n\nWhile COC members are encouraged to study all of the world's religions, the Zoroastrian Avesta is held by them to be the least convoluted and most ancient source supporting their practices and beliefs. Numerous references to Haoma may be found in the Avesta.\n\nIn 2006, the COC with 40 to 50 members in Arizona, nationwide had 72 registered Individual Orthodox Member Monasteries (IOMMs), which are located inside members' homes.\n\nTo become a \"registered member\" of the COC, a candidate must read a pamphlet titled \"The Church Of Cognizance Introduced\". The pamphlet includes the below stated beliefs, description of organization, and the membership pledge of the church. If the candidate is in agreement with the beliefs, organization, and pledge, they then must then fill out, and sign their PLEDGE and return it to the designated address.\n\nMembers of the COC claim to believe:\n\n1. That cannabis as Haoma, when raised and used properly, aids the mind, body, and soul.\n\n2. That Haoma is the ancient teacher of wisdom, compassion, and the way to the kingdom of glory in heaven on earth, while humans let ego block their own, and others, path to this kingdom of glory.\n\n3. That Haoma is the capable provider of all substance required to accommodate a comfortable, healthy, productive, full-bearing life.\n\n4. That Haoma is the righteous Protector of their health, and longevity; by way of receptors in the human body that believe Haoma connects with to heal.\n\nBased on their beliefs, they declare Marijuana/Cannabis/Haoma to be \"the teacher, the protector, the provider\". And further, that the proper religious use promotes \"Good Thoughts, Good Words, Good Deeds, none of which is harmful to the health, safety, welfare, or morals of society in general\".\n\nThe COC is composed of \"Family Oriented Monastic Orders\" wherein members are dedicated to promoting the health, safety, welfare, culture, and tradition of the family thru their belief:\n\n1. That the physically able, retired adults, of the family should care for the sick, the eldest, and the youngest of the family.\n\nEach Family Oriented Monastic Order of the Church Of Cognizance is designated an \"Individual Orthodox Member Monastery\" (IOMM).\n\nBy submitting their application, prospective members pledge their allegiance, and support, to the Church Of Cognizance and the IOMMs of which it is composed. Their pledge requires:\n\nOn February 22, 2006, the founders of the Church of Cognizance, Danuel and Mary Quaintance, were arrested with 172 pounds of marijuana. They asserted that the marijuana was for religious use, an argument which US District court judge Judith C. Herrera rejected outright. The federal judge stated that the evidence shows the two created the church and beliefs as a way of justifying their lifestyle choice to use marijuana and their belief that marijuana should be legalized. She further stated they cannot avoid prosecution for illegal conduct by simply calling their conduct a religion. Also it was noted that the monasteries were all located in members' homes. The church states a \"declaration of religious sentiment\" on behalf of the Church of Cognizance was filed with the Graham County Recorder's Office 12 years prior this arrest in 1994. Further noted was that the Quaintances had not faced any prior criminal charges related to their church and that they do not grow marijuana but pick it up from church \"couriers\", which is what they were doing when they were arrested. Both founders stepped down as leaders of the church following their arrests. But the couple hope to one day resume what they view as their worship.\n\nOn August 18, 2008, they both pleaded guilty to two counts. One count of conspiracy with intent to distribute 200 pounds or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of marijuana; and one count of possession with the intent to distribute 100 pounds or more of a substance containing a detectable amount of marijuana, as well as aiding and abetting. They faced up to 20 years in prison if convicted. Danuel Quaintance is serving a five-year sentence at a facility at the Federal Correctional Institute in Terminal Island, California, near Long Beach. Mary Quaintance is serving two years at the Victorville Federal Correctional Complex in Adelanto, Calif.\n\nAlthough they both were confident that an appeal based on their claimed religious use would keep them out of prison, a unanimous three-judge panel of the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on May 19, 2010, affirmed the denial of the couple’s RFRA defense in \"United States v. Quaintance\". The panel agreed that evidence in the case established that the Quaintances had failed to establish that their beliefs about marijuana as a sacred substance were sincerely held, further concluding that “the record contains … overwhelming evidence that the Quaintances were running a commercial marijuana business with a religious front — particularly in this transaction aimed at securing bail money for Ms. Quaintance’s brother.” \n\n"}
{"id": "2522625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2522625", "title": "Clinical pastoral education", "text": "Clinical pastoral education\n\nClinical pastoral education (CPE) is education to teach pastoral care to clergy and others. CPE is the primary method of training hospital and hospice chaplains and spiritual care providers in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. CPE is both a multicultural and interfaith experience that uses real-life ministry encounters of students to improve the ministry and pastoral care provided by caregivers. \n\nAn underpinning theory of education that structures clinical pastoral education is the \"Action-Reflection\" mode of learning. CPE students typically compose \"verbatims\" of their pastoral care encounters in which they are invited to reflect upon what occurred and draw insight from these reflections that can be implemented in future pastoral care events.\n\nAlthough the practice of pastoral care has a long tradition in Christianity and to some extent in other faith traditions, the systematic analysis of pastoral practice associated with clinical pastoral education had its beginnings in the early 20th century. In 1925, Richard Cabot, a physician and adjunct lecturer at the Harvard Divinity School, published an article in \"Survey Graphic\" suggesting that every candidate for ministry receive clinical training for pastoral work similar to the clinical training offered to medical students. In the 1930s, the Rev. Anton Boisen placed theological students at the Chicago Theological Seminary in supervised contact with patients in mental hospitals, a flagship program that later resulted in the forming of the ACPE.\n\nCPE in Australia and New Zealand is conducted by six CPE accrediting associations that consult together for common curricula and standards of practice under an umbrella association, the Australia New Zealand Association of Clinical Pastoral Education (ANZACPE). The six constituent associations are: New South Wales College of Clinical Pastoral Education (New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory); Queensland Institute of Clinical Pastoral Education; Association for Supervised Pastoral Education in Australia (Victoria and Tasmania); Association for Clinical Pastoral Education in Western Australia; South Australia and Northern Territory Association for Clinical Pastoral Education; and New Zealand Association for Clinical Pastoral Education.\n\nIn the United States, the Association for Clinical Pastoral Education is recognized as an accrediting organization for CPE programs by the U.S. Department of Education.\n\nIn Canada, all CPE training and accreditation is done through CASC, the Canadian Association of Spiritual Care / Association Canadienne de Soins Spirituels.\n"}
{"id": "250856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250856", "title": "Divine command theory", "text": "Divine command theory\n\nDivine command theory (also known as theological voluntarism) is a meta-ethical theory which proposes that an action's status as morally good is equivalent to whether it is commanded by God. The theory asserts that what is moral is determined by what God commands, and that for a person to be moral is to follow his commands. Followers of both monotheistic and polytheistic religions in ancient and modern times have often accepted the importance of God's commands in establishing morality.\n\nNumerous variants of the theory have been presented: historically, figures including Saint Augustine, Duns Scotus, William of Ockham and Søren Kierkegaard have presented various versions of divine command theory; more recently, Robert Merrihew Adams has proposed a \"modified divine command theory\" based on the omnibenevolence of God in which morality is linked to human conceptions of right and wrong. Paul Copan has argued in favour of the theory from a Christian viewpoint, and Linda Trinkaus Zagzebski's divine motivation theory proposes that God's motivations, rather than commands, are the source of morality.\n\nSemantic challenges to divine command theory have been proposed; the philosopher William Wainwright argued that to be commanded by God and to be morally obligatory do not have an identical meaning, which he believed would make defining obligation difficult. He also contended that, as knowledge of God is required for morality by divine command theory, atheists and agnostics could not be moral; he saw this as a weakness of the theory. Others have challenged the theory on modal grounds by arguing that, even if God's command and morality correlate in this world, they may not do so in other possible worlds. In addition, the Euthyphro dilemma, first proposed by Plato (in the context of polytheistic Greek religion), presented a dilemma which threatened either to leave morality subject to the whims of God, or challenge his omnipotence. Divine command theory has also been criticised for its apparent incompatibility with the omnibenevolence of God, moral autonomy and religious pluralism, although some scholars have attempted to defend the theory from these challenges.\n\nVarious forms of divine command theory have been presented by philosophers including William of Ockham, St Augustine, Duns Scotus, and John Calvin. The theory generally teaches that moral truth does not exist independently of God and that morality is determined by divine commands. Stronger versions of the theory assert that God's command is the only reason that a good action is moral, while weaker variations cast divine command as a vital component within a greater reason. The theory asserts that good actions are morally good as a result of their being commanded by God, and many religious believers subscribe to some form of divine command theory. Because of these premises, adherents believe that moral obligation is obedience to God's commands; what is morally right is what God desires.\n\nDivine command theory features in the ethics of many modern religions, including Judaism, Islam, the Bahá'í Faith, and Christianity, as well as being a part of numerous older polytheistic religions. In ancient Athens, it was commonly held that moral truth was tied directly to divine commands, and religious piety was almost equivalent to morality. Although Christianity does not entail divine command theory, it is commonly associated with it. It can be a plausible theory to Christians because the traditional conception of God as the creator of the universe supports the idea that he created moral truths. The theory is supported by the Christian view that God is all-powerful because this implies that God creates moral truths, rather than moral truths existing independently of him, which seems inconsistent with his omnipotence.\n\nSaint Augustine offered a version of divine command theory that began by casting ethics as the pursuit of the supreme good, which delivers human happiness. He argued that to achieve this happiness, humans must love objects that are worthy of human love in the correct manner; this requires humans to love God, which then allows them to correctly love that which is worthy of being loved. Augustine's ethics proposed that the act of loving God enables humans to properly orient their loves, leading to human happiness and fulfilment. Augustine supported Plato's view that a well-ordered soul is a desirable consequence of morality. However, unlike Plato, he believed that achieving a well-ordered soul had a higher purpose: living in accordance with God's commands. His view of morality was thus heteronomous, as he believed in deference to a higher authority (God), rather than acting autonomously.\n\nScholastic philosopher John Duns Scotus argued that the only moral obligations that God could not take away from humans are to love God, as God is, definitionally, the most loveable thing. Scotus argued that the natural law, in the strictest sense, contains only what is self-evidently analytically true and that God could not make these statements false. This means that the commands of natural law do not depend on God's will, and thus form the first three commandments of the Ten Commandments. The last seven of the Ten Commandments do not belong to the natural law in the strictest sense. Whilst our duties to God are self-evident, true by definition, and unchangeable even by God, our duties to others (found on the second tablet) were arbitrarily willed by God and are within his power to revoke and replace (although, the third commandment, to honour the Sabbath and keep it holy, has a little of both, as we are absolutely obliged to render worship to God, but there is no obligation in natural law to do it on this day or that). Scotus does note, however that the last seven commandments \"are highly consonant with [the natural law], though they do not follow necessarily from first practical principles that are known in virtue of their terms and are necessarily known by any intellect [that understands their terms. And it is certain that all the precepts of the second table belong to the natural law in this second way, since their rectitude is highly consonant with first practical principles that are known necessarily\". Scotus justifies this position with the example of a peaceful society, noting that the possession of private property is not necessary to have a peaceful society, but that \"those of weak character\" would be more easily made peaceful with private property than without. Hence, the last seven commandments do belong to the natural law, but not in the strictest sense, as they belong to the natural law by rectitude rather than by definition.\n\nWhilst Aquinas, as a natural law theorist, is generally seen as holding that morality is not willed by God, Kelly James Clark and Anne Poortenga have presented a defence of divine command theory based on Aquinas' moral theory. Aquinas proposed a theory of natural law which asserted that something is moral if it works towards the purpose of human existence, and so human nature can determine what is moral. Clark and Poortenga argued that God created human nature and thus commanded a certain morality; hence he cannot arbitrarily change what is right or wrong for humans.\n\nThe deontological ethics of Immanuel Kant has been cast as rejecting divine command theory by several figures, among whom is ethicist R. M. Hare. Kant's view that morality should be determined by the categorical imperative – duty to the moral law, rather than acting for a specific end – has been viewed as incompatible with divine command theory. Philosopher and theologian John E. Hare has noted that some philosophers see divine command theory as an example of Kant's heteronomous will – motives besides the moral law, which Kant regarded as non-moral. American philosopher Lewis White Beck takes Kant's argument to be a refutation of the theory that morality depends of divine authority. John E. Hare challenges this view, arguing that Kantian ethics should be seen as compatible with divine command theory.\n\nAmerican philosopher Robert Merrihew Adams proposes what he calls a \"modified divine command theory\". Adams presents the basic form of his theory by asserting that two statements are equivalent:\nHe proposes that God's commands precurse moral truths and must be explained in terms of moral truths, not the other way around. Adams writes that his theory is an attempt to define what being ethically 'wrong' consists of and accepts that it is only useful to those within a Judeo-Christian context. In dealing with the criticism that a seemingly immoral act would be obligatory if God commanded it, he proposes that God does not command cruelty for its own sake. Adams does not propose that it would be logically impossible for God to command cruelty, rather that it would be unthinkable for him to do so because of his nature. Adams emphasises the importance of faith in God, specifically faith in God's goodness, as well as his existence.\n\nAdams proposes that an action is morally wrong if and only if it defies the commands of a loving God. If cruelty was commanded, he would not be loving; Adams argued that, in this instance, God's commands would not have to be obeyed and also that his theory of ethical wrongness would break down. He proposed that divine command morality assumes that human concepts of right and wrong are met by God's commands and that the theory can only be applied if this is the case. Adams' theory attempts to counter the challenge that morality might be arbitrary, as moral commands are not based solely on the commands of God, but are founded on his omnibenevolence. It attempts to challenge the claim that an external standard of morality prevents God from being sovereign by making him the source of morality and his character the moral law.\n\nAdams proposes that in many Judeo-Christian contexts, the term 'wrong' is used to mean being contrary to God's commands. In ethical contexts, he believes that 'wrong' entails an emotional attitude against an action and that these two uses of wrongness usually correlate. Adams suggests that a believer's concept of morality is founded in their religious belief and that right and wrong are tied to their belief in God; this works because God always commands what believers accept to be right. If God commanded what a believer perceived as wrong, the believer would not say it is right or wrong to disobey him; rather their concept of morality would break down.\n\nMichael Austin writes that an implication of this modified divine command theory is that God cannot command cruelty for its own sake; this could be argued to be inconsistent with God's omnipotence. Thomas Aquinas argued that God's omnipotence should be understood as the ability to do all things that are possible: he attempted to refute the idea that God's inability to perform illogical actions challenges his omnipotence. Austin contends that commanding cruelty for its own sake is not illogical, so is not covered by Aquinas' defence, although Aquinas had argued that sin is the falling short of a perfect action and thus not compatible with omnipotence.\n\nPaul Copan argues from a Christian viewpoint that man, made in God's image, conforms to God's sense of morality. The description of actions as right or wrong are therefore relevant to God; a person's sense of what is right or wrong corresponds to God's.\nAs an alternative to divine command theory, Linda Zagzebski has proposed divine motivation theory, which still fits into a monotheistic framework. According to this theory, goodness is determined by God's motives, rather than by what he commands. Divine motivation theory is similar to virtue ethics because it considers the character of an agent, and whether they are in accordance with God's, as the standard for moral value. Zagzebski argues that things in the world have objective moral properties, such as being lovable, which are given to them through God's perception of them. God's attitude towards something is cast as a morally good attitude. The theory casts God as a good example for morality, and humans should imitate his virtues as much as is possible for finite, imperfect beings.\n\nPhilosopher William Wainwright considered a challenge to the theory on semantic grounds, arguing that \"being commanded by God\" and \"being obligatory\" do not mean the same thing, contrary to what the theory suggests. He used the example of water not having an identical meaning to HO to propose that \"being commanded by God\" does not have an identical meaning to \"being obligatory\". This was not an objection to the truth of divine command theory, but Wainwright believed it demonstrated that the theory should not be used to formulate assertions about the meaning of obligation. Wainwright also noted that divine command theory might imply that one can only have moral knowledge if one has knowledge of God; Edward Wierenga argued that, if this is the case, the theory seems to deny atheists and agnostics moral knowledge. Hugh Storer Chandler has challenged the theory based on modal ideas of what might exist in different worlds. He suggested that, even if one accepts that being commanded by God and being morally right are the same, they may not be synonyms because they might be different in other possible worlds.\n\nMichael Austin has noted that divine command theory could be criticised for prompting people to be moral with impure motivations. He writes of the objection that a moral life should be sought because morality is valued, rather than to avoid punishment or receive a reward. This punishment and reward system of motivation could be seen as inadequate.\n\nThe Euthyphro dilemma was proposed in Plato's dialogue between Socrates and Euthyphro. In the scene, Socrates and Euthyphro are discussing the nature of piety when Socrates presents the dilemma, which can be presented as the question 'Is X good because God commands it, or does God command X because it is good?'\n\nThe Euthyphro dilemma can elicit the response that an action is good because God commands the action, or that God commands an action because it is good. If the first is chosen, it would imply that whatever God commands must be good: even if he commanded someone to inflict suffering, then inflicting suffering must be moral. If the latter is chosen, then morality is no longer dependent on God, defeating the divine command theory. Additionally, if God is subject to an external law, he is not sovereign or omnipotent, which would challenge the orthodox conception of God. Proponents of the Euthyphro dilemma might claim that divine command theory is obviously wrong because either answer challenges the ability of God to give moral laws.\n\nWilliam of Ockham responded to the Euthyphro Dilemma by 'biting the bullet'. He argued that, if God did command people to be cruel, then that would be morally obligatory, proposing that the only limitation to what God can make obligatory is the principle of non-contradiction. Robert Adams defended Ockham's view, noting that it is only a logical possibility that God would command what we consider to be immoral, not an actuality. Even if God could logically command these actions, he would not because that is not his character. Eleonore Stump and Norman Kretzmann have responded to the Euthyphro dilemma by appealing to the doctrine of divine simplicity, a concept associated with Aquinas and Aristotle which suggests that the substance and attributes of God are identical. They propose that God and goodness are identical and that this is what makes his commands good.\n\nAmerican philosopher William Alston responded to the Euthyphro dilemma by considering what it means for God to be morally good. If divine command theory is accepted, it implies that God is good because he obeys his own commands; Alston argued that this is not the case and that God's goodness is distinct from abiding by moral obligations. He suggested that a moral obligation implies that there is some possibility that the agent may not honour their obligation; Alston argued that this possibility does not exist for God, so his morality must be distinct from simply obeying his own commands. Alston contended that God is the supreme standard of morality and acts according to his character, which is necessarily good. There is no more arbitrariness in this view than accepting another moral standard.\n\nGottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, and some more recent philosophers, challenged the theory because it seems to entail that God's goodness consists of his following his own commands. It is argued that, if divine command theory is accepted, God's obligations would be what he commanded himself to do; the concept of God commanding himself is seen as incoherent. Neither could God hold any virtues, as a virtue would be the disposition to follow his own commands – if he cannot logically command himself, then he cannot logically have any virtues. Edward Wierenga counters this by claiming that whatever God chooses to do is good, but that his nature means that his actions would always be praiseworthy. William Wainwright argues that, although God does not act because of his commands, it is still logical to say that God has reasons for his actions. He proposes that God is motivated by what is morally good and, when he commands what is morally good, it becomes morally obligatory.\n\nMichael Austin draws attention to an objection from autonomy, which argues that morality requires an agent to freely choose which principles they live by. This challenges the view of divine command theory that God's will determines what is good because humans are no longer autonomous, but followers of an imposed moral law, making autonomy incompatible with divine command theory. Robert Adams challenges this criticism, arguing that humans must still choose to accept or reject God's commands and rely on their independent judgement about whether or not to follow them.\n\nAustin considers the view that, in a world of religious pluralism, it is impossible to know which god's or religion's commands should be followed, especially because some religions contradict others, leaving it impossible to accept all of them. Within religions there are also various interpretations of what is commanded. Austin notes that some of the responses to the autonomy objection may be relevant, as an agent must choose whichever religion and morality they judge to be correct. He argues that divine command theory is also consistent with the view that moral truths can be found in all religions and that moral revelation can be found apart from religion. Heimir Geirsson and Margaret Holmgren argue against the view that different religions can lead to the same God because some religions are incompatible with each other (monotheistic and polytheistic religions have contrasting views of divinity, for example, and some Greek or Norse gods magnified human weaknesses). They argue that determining which god should be listened to remains a problem and that, even within a religion, contrasting views of God exist – the commands of God in the Old and New Testaments could seem to contradict each other.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8582057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8582057", "title": "Divine inspiration", "text": "Divine inspiration\n\nDivine inspiration is the concept of a supernatural force, typically a deity, causing a person or people to experience a creative desire. It has been a commonly reported aspect of many religions, for thousands of years. Divine inspiration is often closely tied to the concept of revelation, the belief in information being revealed or disclosed through communication with a deity or other supernatural entity or entities.\n\nBesides ancient mythology, the religious texts of traditions including Hinduism, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Mormonism, and the Bahá'í Faith are all claimed to be divinely inspired to some degree.\n\nThe Jehovah's Witnesses have at times disclaimed divine inspiration with respect to their doctrine. although at other times they propose that \"divine guidance\" is provided to individuals.\n\nPlato distinguishes four kinds of inspiration or \"mania\" in the dialogue Phaedrus. The word \"mania\" signifying that a person is caught up in a state transcending the individual consciousness. In other dialogues, Plato identifies other manias besides the four given in Phaedrus. Anger, for example, is a mania because a man may become inspired by Mars in battle and perform deeds of superhuman strength. The four given in Phaedrus, however, are called Divine as they are the inspirations which perfect the soul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55425710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55425710", "title": "Double belonging", "text": "Double belonging\n\nDouble belonging is the phenomenon in which one claims to be an adherent of two different religions at the same time or incorporates the practices of another religion into their own faith life. It is increasing in certain parts of Europe and North America. One such example is a person attending a Christian church but also engaging in the Hindu practice of yoga.\n"}
{"id": "1752698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1752698", "title": "Exclusivism", "text": "Exclusivism\n\nExclusivism is the practice of being exclusive; mentality characterized by the disregard for opinions and ideas other than one's own, or the practice of organizing entities into groups by excluding those entities which possess certain traits. (for an opposite example, see essentialism).\n\nReligious exclusivism, one of the three classic typologies created by Alan Race in order to describe religions relative to one another, states that one religion, to the exclusion of all others, has the correct understanding of God, truth and salvation. Diana Eck states, ‘Exclusivism is more than simply a conviction about the transformative power of the particular vision one has; it is a conviction about its finality and its absolute priority over competing views’. While it was originally used to define Christianity, exclusivism can apply to any religious belief system, as can Race’s other two categories inclusivism and pluralism. In his 1982 \"Christians and Religious Pluralism,\" Race defined pluralism as all religions being equally beneficial, with no single religion dominating. Inclusivism attempts to straddle the poles of pluralism and exclusivism by agreeing with the latter that one religion (Christianity) has the most value, and agreeing with the former by stating that other religions still have significant value. While Race’s three categories have been criticized, amended and refuted, most religious studies and interfaith scholars and students find the typologies useful as a starting point for conversations about the diversity of religions.\n\nPluralism was borne out of a criticism of exclusivism, saying that no single tradition has a monopoly on revelation or salvation, and that we have no way to judge between the salvific claims by adherents of any faith tradition. Paul Hedges suggests that each religion knows ‘transcendent reality (“God”) yet in partial perspective,’ much like the oft-quoted parable of the seven blind men and the elephant. Gavin D’costa says pluralists have two main critiques of exclusivists: people of other religions are god and loving and that they do not know their own Scriptures well enough. Alvin Plantinga says that pluralist’s problem with exclusivism stems from its immorality and arrogance. He quotes William Cantwell Smith: ‘Except at the cost of insensitivity or delinquency, it is morally not possible actually to go out into the world and say to devout, intelligent, fellow human beings: “…we believe that we know God and we are right; you believe that you know God, and you are totally wrong.”’ Along with Smith, the leading proponent of pluralism is John Hick, who writes:\n\n[Exclusivism], with its baleful historical influence, in validating centuries of anti-semitism, the colonial exploitation by Christian Europe of what today we call the third world, and the subordination of women within a strongly patriarchal religious system, not only causes misgivings among many Christians but also alarms many of our non-Christian neighbors, creating invisible but powerful barriers within the human community.\n\nIt is worth noting that D’costa argued persuasively that logically, pluralism can no longer be considered a category; when it makes a declarative truth claim, it becomes another form of exclusivism.\n\nInclusivists state that while one religion or revelation is true (Christianity), other truths can be found in fragments within other religions. Karl Rahner states it succinctly: ‘Insofar as they in good conscience practice what is good in their religion, people in other religions receive God’s grace and are “anonymous Christians,” people who are being saved through Christ, though they do not realize it.’ Inclusivists point to the biblical parable of the sheep and the goats in which the saved sheep show surprise at being rewarded for their service to Jesus (Matthew 25: 31-40)\n\nAccording to Race, the history of the Abrahamic faiths’ exclusivism – as well as inclusivism – goes back to the words of the Bible and the Qur’an. Christian exclusivists point to John’s gospel (14: 6), which quotes Jesus as saying, ‘I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.’ After Jesus’ death, his disciple Peter said publicly, ‘Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved’ (Acts 4:12). Likewise, the Qur’an (3:85) states, ‘If anyone desires a religion other than Islam (submission to Allah), never will it be accepted of him; and in the Hereafter He will be in the ranks of those who have lost (all spiritual good).’ While Judaism does not stress salvation, the First Commandment (Exodus 20:3) is ‘You shall have no other gods before me.’ Race says, ‘The tension between Christian experience and the recognition of potential authentic practice outside of the Christian revelation, in fact has always existed in Christian history from the beginning, from the words of Jesus himself in the gospel of Luke: in 9:50 he says, “He who is \"not against\" us is for us”’. Daniel Strange points out what Race neglects to mention: that in the same gospel (11:23), Jesus says, ‘He who is \"not with me\" is against me.’\n\nThe exclusivist idea of ‘no salvation outside of the Christian church’ (\"Extra ecclesiam nulla salus\") has roots as early as Origen in the third century. And while the Bible speaks about many topics of inclusion, diversity and tolerance in both the Old and New Testament – attitudes toward the alien and stranger; the hope of Christians being drawn from all nations and languages; God’s universal care and sustaining of creation; the universal scope of the gospel and the universal mandate to take the gospel to the nations – the overwhelming feeling in the Church throughout most of its history mimics that of the Council of Florence in 1422: ‘The Council firmly believes, professes and proclaims that those not living within the Catholic Church, not only pagans, but Jews, heretics and schismatics, cannot participate in eternal life, but will depart into everlasting fire which has been prepared for the devil and his [sic] angels.’ Martin Luther continued the exclusivist theological bent: ‘For where Christ is not preached, there is no Holy Spirit to create, call and gather the Christian Church, and outside it no one can come to the Lord Christ’. The door in the exclusivist castle opened a crack during the 20th century missionary movement, when Dutch missiologist Hendrik Kraemer wrote that Jesus is the one who has the complete authority to judge other religions’ efficacy. Highlighting a unique contemporary take on the salvation problem, Strange introduces George Lindbeck’s contention that those who do not know the Bible cannot be condemned for their lack of knowledge.\n\nMara Brecht states that the problem with classic exclusivism is that it deals mainly with Christianity and salvation (or ‘top down’). She highlights the work of the ‘New Wave of exclusivism,’ led by Griffiths, D’costa and Netland, who employ a ‘bottom up’ approach to religious diversity. New Wave Exclusivists focus more on the religious believers’ ‘ways of knowing and understanding of religious beliefs as expressive truth,’ resulting in a broader possibility for interfaith engagement. For example, Netland sets aside comparing religions’ salvation when he says dialogue should focus on the most important question all religions deal with – the question of truth. Brecht reaches the conclusion that exclusivism is tenable for Christians – and by extension other religious believers – if believers come into contact with believers of other religions who can possibly ‘defeat’ their own, so they can have something to base their truth claims on. Brecht says, ‘Practically, this means that, for example, reflective Christians will consider their beliefs to be as \"probable\" as alternatives from within their own tradition, \"somewhat more probable than\" the relevant alternatives from within Judaism and \"considerably more probable than\" Buddhist alternatives. In other words, believers will weigh their beliefs against other beliefs.’\n\nDouglas Pratt further defines exclusivism, dividing it into three subdivisions – open, closed and extreme. Citing t’Hooft and Kraemer, Pratt says open exclusivism, while never ceding the superior position, ‘may at least be amenably disposed toward the other,’ if only in order to know Them well enough for possible conversion. The relationship is not entered into on equal ground, therefore, nor with the openness to a significant reciprocal change of self-identity. If dialogue is entered into, it is only for mutual edification and an increase in good will. Closed exclusivism offers no chance for a relationship, other than acknowledging the other’s right to exist. An extreme, hard-line exclusivism often leads to a fundamentalist perspective. Pratt writes, ‘Fundamentalism, as a mindset, is a mentality that expresses the modern quest for universality and coherence writ large: only one truth; one authority; one authentic narrative that accounts for all; one right way to be.’ The logical conclusion for this fundamentalist mindset is taking steps to eliminate the other, as one would a business competitor. Pratt writes, ‘The negation of otherness is perhaps critical, for it involves a devaluing and dismissal of the \"other,\" whether in terms of rival community or competing alterities, ideological or otherwise. In the process of negating the other, the self is asserted as inherently superior. My God is greater than your god.’\n\nPaul Moser posits two forms of exclusivism: logical religious exclusivism, which asserts that since the contradictory, foundational truth claims for each religion excludes some or many of them from being true; and the doxastic redemptive exclusivism based on the Athanasian Creed, which states if a person does not believe the Christian concept of the Trinity, that person is condemned. Moser further believes that a God who would exclude people from salvation for neither hearing nor understanding the concept of the Trinity does not have a moral character, and is therefore undeserving of worship.\n\nWhile most attention of exclusivism points toward Christianity, each religion has a branch that falls into the exclusivist category. D’costa points out whether one considers oneself Buddhist or Hindu or Muslim – or indeed a pluralist – each version states that ‘only one single revelation or one single religion is true and all other “revelations” or religions are false.’ While acknowledging that historically, Christianity showed the most extreme forms of exclusivism, Pratt contends that many fundamentalist religions compete for that title, with Islam leading other worthy contenders in ways that are not always obvious. With the purging of the Rohingya in Myanmar, the Buddhist Rakhine have joined the ranks of fundamentalists willing to resort to killing to achieve dominance over competing religions.\n\nThe Decree of Diopithes (430 BCE) forbade the worship of and belief in gods other than those of the Olympian pantheon recognised by the Athenian polis. The introduction of other gods was treated as \"asebeia\", or impiety, and was punishable by death. The philosophers Anaxagoras, Protagoras, Socrates, Stilpo, Theodorus of Cyrene, Aristotle, and Theophrastus were accused of impiety under this decree. Socrates was found guilty of the charge of introducing new gods and condemned to death by drinking hemlock.\n\nAntiochus IV Epiphanes, Selucid ruler of Israel, decided to Hellenize the Jews by ordering the worship of Zeus; when they refused, Antiochus sent an army to enforce his decree.\n\nAccording to Herodotus the Caunians, a Greek people who claimed to have originated in Crete and settled in Asia Minor, worshiped the Olympian Gods exclusively. \"They determined that they would no longer make use of the foreign temples which had been established among them, but would worship their own old ancestral Gods alone. Then their whole youth took arms, and striking the air with their spears, marched to the Calyndic frontier, declaring that they were driving out the foreign Gods.\"\n\nPlato, in his Laws, advocates that the state should punish those who deny the existence of the Olympian Gods or believe that the gods exist but think they are indifferent to mankind or can be easily bought by bribes.\n\n\"Interpretatio graeca\", the common tendency of ancient Greek writers to identify foreign divinities with members of their own pantheon, can be seen as a kind of exclusivism. The syncretism of the Hellenistic period whereby aspects of the cults of foreign Gods such as iconography and epithets, can also be seen as a kind of exclusivism.\n\nIn a sociological survey of Americans and their relationship with religions other than Christianity, nearly 90 percent of respondents either strongly or somewhat agreed that “religious diversity has been good for America,” which reinforces the idea that Americans value diversity and religious freedom. However, respondents who identified in the exclusivist category or believed that the United States was a Christian nation displayed much more negative views and a decreased willingness to include other religious people in the lives of their community. Stephen Merino concludes, ‘It may be that when many Americans think of “religious diversity,” they have only Christian diversity in mind.’ Nevertheless, they also provided research to back up their statement, \"‘\"Prior contact with non-Christians will be associated with more positive views of religious diversity and increased willingness to include non-Christians into social life.’ \n\nIn answering the pluralist charge, and hearkening back to Netland, Brad Stetson baldly states, ‘It is possible exclusivism is true.’ It is this statement, he says, that upsets pluralists who charge exclusivists with arrogance and bad form. ‘It is simply not true, as pluralists imply, that disagreeing with someone […] about religious truth is tantamount to treating them badly.[…] [a]n exclusivist claim about religious truth is not defeated strictly because such claims are believed to militate against human harmony and peace.' In addition, Hick, Smith and other pluralists balk at the idea that an all-loving God would condemn some people to hell, nor that anyone actually deserves to be damned; he then quotes CS Lewis: ‘The doors of hell are locked on the \"inside.’\" \n"}
{"id": "11064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11064", "title": "Faith", "text": "Faith\n\nIn the context of religion, one can define faith as confidence or trust in a particular system of religious belief,\nwithin which faith may equate to confidence based on some perceived degree of warrant,\nin contrast to a definition of faith as being belief without evidence.\n\nThe English word \"faith\" is thought to date from 1200–1250, from the Middle English \"feith\", via Anglo-French \"fed\", Old French \"feid\", \"feit\" from Latin \"fidem\", accusative of \"fidēs\" (trust), akin to \"fīdere\" (to trust).\n\nJames W. Fowler (1940–2015) proposes a series of stages of faith-development (or spiritual development) across the human life-span. His stages relate closely to the work of Piaget, Erikson, and Kohlberg regarding aspects of psychological development in children and adults. Fowler defines faith as an activity of trusting, committing, and relating to the world based on a set of assumptions of how one is related to others and the world.\n\n\nNo hard-and-fast rule requires individuals pursuing faith to go through all six stages. There is a high probability for individuals to be content and fixed in a particular stage for a lifetime; stages from 2-5 are such stages. Stage 6 is the summit of faith development. This state is often considered as \"not fully\" attainable.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, faith is meant, first, conscious knowledge, and second, the practice of good deeds, ultimately the acceptance of the divine authority of the Manifestations of God. In the religion's view, faith and knowledge are both required for spiritual growth. Faith involves more than outward obedience to this authority, but also must be based on a deep personal understanding of religious teachings.\n\nFaith in Buddhism (', ') refers to a serene commitment in the practice of the Buddha's teaching and trust in enlightened or highly developed beings, such as Buddhas or \"bodhisattvas\" (those aiming to become a Buddha). Buddhists usually recognize multiple objects of faith, but many are especially devoted to one particular object of faith, such as one particular Buddha.\n\nIn early Buddhism, faith was focused on the Triple Gem, that is, Gautama Buddha, his teaching (the Dhamma), and the community of spiritually developed followers, or the monastic community seeking enlightenment (the Sangha). Although offerings to the monastic community were valued highest, early Buddhism did not morally condemn peaceful offerings to deities. A faithful devotee was called \"upāsaka\" or \"upāsika\", for which no formal declaration was required. In early Buddhism, personal verification was valued highest in attaining the truth, and sacred scriptures, reason or faith in a teacher were considered less valuable sources of authority. As important as faith was, it was a mere initial step to the path to wisdom and enlightenment, and was obsolete or redefined at the final stage of that path.\n\nWhile faith in Buddhism does not imply \"blind faith\", Buddhist practice nevertheless requires a degree of trust, primarily in the spiritual attainment of Gautama Buddha. Faith in Buddhism centers on the understanding that the Buddha is an Awakened being, on his superior role as teacher, in the truth of his Dharma (spiritual teachings), and in his Sangha (community of spiritually developed followers). Faith in Buddhism can be summarised as faith in the Three Jewels: the Buddha, Dharma and Sangha. It is intended to lead to the goal of enlightenment, or bodhi, and Nirvana. Volitionally, faith implies a resolute and courageous act of will. It combines the steadfast resolution that one will do a thing with the self-confidence that one can do it.\n\nIn the later stratum of Buddhist history, especially Mahāyāna Buddhism, faith was given a much more important role. The concept of the Buddha Nature was developed, as devotion to Buddhas and \"bodhisattvas\" residing in Pure Lands became commonplace. With the arising of the cult of the Lotus Sūtra, faith gained a central role in Buddhist practice, which was further amplified with the development of devotion to the Amitabha Buddha in Pure Land Buddhism. In the Japanese form of Pure Land Buddhism, under the teachers Hōnen and Shinran, only entrusting faith toward the Amitabha Buddha was believed to be a fruitful form of practice, as the practice of celibacy, morality and other Buddhist disciplines were dismissed as no longer effective in this day and age, or contradicting the virtue of faith. Faith was defined as a state similar to enlightenment, with a sense of self-negation and humility.\n\nThus, the role of faith increased throughout Buddhist history. However, from the nineteenth century onward, Buddhist modernism in countries like Sri Lanka and Japan, and also in the West, has downplayed and criticized the role of faith in Buddhism. Faith in Buddhism still has a role in modern Asia or the West, but is understood and defined differently from traditional interpretations. Within the Dalit Buddhist Movement communities, taking refuge is defined not only as a religious, but also a political choice.\n\nThe word translated as \"faith\" in the New Testament is the Greek word \"πίστις\" (\"pístis\") which can also be translated \"belief\", \"faithfulness\", and \"trust\". There are various views in Christianity regarding the nature of faith. Some see faith as being persuaded or convinced that something is true. In this view, a person believes something when they are presented with adequate evidence that it is true. Theologian Thomas Aquinas did not hold that faith is mere opinion: on the contrary, he held that it is a mean (understood in the Platonic sense) between excessive reliance on science (i.e. demonstration) and excessive reliance on opinion.\n\nThen there are numerous views regarding the results of faith. Some believe that true faith results in good works, while others believe that while faith in Jesus brings eternal life, it does not necessarily result in good works.\n\nRegardless of which approach to faith a Christian takes, all agree that the Christian faith is aligned with the ideals and the example of the life of Jesus. The Christian sees the mystery of God and his grace and seeks to know and become obedient to God. To a Christian, faith is not static but causes one to learn more of God and to grow; Christian faith has its origin in God.\n\nThe definition of faith given by the apostle Paul at Hebrews 11:1 carries particular weight with Christians that respect the Bible as the source of divine truth. There the apostle writes:\n\n\"Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.\" — King James Version\n\n\"Now faith is the assurance that what we hope for will come about and the certainty that what we cannot see exists.\" — International Standard Version\n\n“The naive or inexperienced person[is easily misled and believes every word he hears, but the prudent man is discreet and astute.” (Proverbs 14:15, Amplified Bible) The Christian apostle Paul wrote: “Test everything that is said to be sure it is true, and if it is, then accept it.” (1 Thessalonians 5:21, Living Bible)\n\nIn Christianity, faith causes change as it seeks a greater understanding of God. Faith is not only fideism or simple obedience to a set of rules or statements. Before Christians have faith, they must understand in whom and in what they have faith. Without understanding, there cannot be true faith, and that understanding is built on the foundation of the community of believers, the scriptures and traditions and on the personal experiences of the believer. In English translations of the New Testament, the word \"faith\" generally corresponds to the Greek noun πίστις (\"pistis\") or to the Greek verb πιστεύω (\"pisteuo\"), meaning \"to trust, to have confidence, faithfulness, to be reliable, to assure\".\n\nIn contrast to noted atheist Richard Dawkins' view of faith as \"blind trust, in the absence of evidence, even in the teeth of evidence\", Alister McGrath quotes the Oxford Anglican theologian W. H. Griffith-Thomas (1861–1924), who states that faith is \"not blind, but intelligent\" and that it \"commences with the conviction of the mind based on adequate evidence...\", which McGrath sees as \"a good and reliable definition, synthesizing the core elements of the characteristic Christian understanding of faith\".\n\nAmerican biblical scholar Archibald Thomas Robertson stated that the Greek word \"pistis\" used for faith in the New Testament (over two hundred forty times), and rendered \"assurance\" in Acts 17:31 (KJV), is \"an old verb meaning \"to furnish\", used regularly by Demosthenes for bringing forward evidence.\" Tom Price (Oxford Centre for Christian Apologetics) affirms that when the New Testament talks about faith positively it only uses words derived from the Greek root [pistis] which means \"to be persuaded\".\n\nBritish Christian apologist John Lennox argues that \"faith conceived as belief that lacks warrant is very different from faith conceived as belief that has warrant\". He states that \"the use of the adjective 'blind' to describe 'faith' indicates that faith is not necessarily, or always, or indeed normally, blind\". \"The validity, or warrant, of faith or belief depends on the strength of the evidence on which the belief is based.\" \"We all know how to distinguish between blind faith and evidence-based faith. We are well aware that faith is only justified if there is evidence to back it up.\" \"Evidence-based faith is the normal concept on which we base our everyday lives.\"\n\nPeter S Williams holds that \"the classic Christian tradition has always valued rationality, and does not hold that faith involves the complete abandonment of reason while believing in the teeth of evidence.\" Quoting Moreland, faith is defined as \"a trust in and commitment to what we have reason to believe is true.\"\n\nRegarding doubting Thomas in John 20:24-31, Williams points out that \"Thomas wasn't asked to believe without evidence\". He was asked to believe on the basis of the other disciples' testimony. Thomas initially lacked the first-hand experience of the evidence that had convinced them... Moreover, the reason John gives for recounting these events is that what he saw is evidence... Jesus did many other miraculous signs in the presence of his disciples...But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the son of God, and that believing ye might have life in his name. John 20:30,31.\n\nConcerning doubting Thomas, Michael R. Allen wrote, \"Thomas's definition of faith implies adherence to conceptual propositions for the sake of personal knowledge, knowledge of and about a person \"qua\" person\".\n\nKenneth Boa and Robert M. Bowman Jr. describe a classic understanding of faith that is referred to as \"evidentialism\", and which is part of a larger epistemological tradition called \"classical foundationalism\", which is accompanied by \"deontologism\", which holds that humans have an obligation to regulate their beliefs in accordance with evidentialist structures.\n\nThey show how this can go too far, and Alvin Plantinga deals with it. While Plantinga upholds that faith may be the result of evidence testifying to the reliability of the source (of the truth claims), yet he sees having faith as being the result of hearing the truth of the gospel with the internal persuasion by the Holy Spirit moving and enabling him to believe. \"Christian belief is produced in the believer by the internal instigation of the Holy Spirit, endorsing the teachings of Scripture, which is itself divinely inspired by the Holy Spirit. The result of the work of the Holy Spirit is faith.\"\n\nThe four-part \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" (CCC) gives Part One to \"The Profession of Faith\". This section describes the content of faith. It elaborates and expands particularly upon the Apostles' Creed. CCC 144 initiates a section on the \"Obedience of Faith\".\n\nIn the theology of Pope John Paul II, faith is understood in personal terms as a trusting commitment of person to person and thus involves Christian commitment to the divine person of Jesus Christ.\n\nSome alternative, yet impactful, ideas regarding the nature of faith were presented in a collection of sermons now presented as \n\n\nAhimsa, also referred to as nonviolence, is the fundamental tenet of Hinduism which advocates harmonious and peaceful co-existence and evolutionary growth in grace and wisdom for all humankind unconditionally.\n\nIn Hinduism, most of the Vedic prayers begins with the chants of Om. Om is the Sanskrit symbol that amazingly resonates the peacefulness ensconced within one's higher self. Om is considered to have a profound effect on the body and mind of the one who chants and also creates a calmness, serenity, healing, strength of its own to prevail within and also in the surrounding environment.\n\nIn Islam, a believer's faith in the metaphysical aspects of Islam is called \"Iman\" (), which is complete submission to the will of God, not unquestionable or blind belief. A man must build his faith on well-grounded convictions beyond any reasonable doubt and above uncertainty. According to the Quran, Iman must be accompanied by righteous deeds and the two together are necessary for entry into Paradise. In the Hadith of Gabriel, \"Iman\" in addition to \"Islam\" and \"Ihsan\" form the three dimensions of the Islamic religion.\n\nMuhammad referred to the six articles of faith in the Hadith of Gabriel: \"Iman is that you believe in God and His Angels and His Books and His Messengers and the Hereafter and the good and evil fate [ordained by your God].\" The first five are mentioned together in the Qur'an The Quran states that faith can grow with remembrance of God. The Qur'an also states that nothing in this world should be dearer to a true believer than faith.\n\nFaith itself is not a religious concept in Judaism. The \"faith in God\" is mentioned in the Book of Genesis Chapter 15 verse 6 and in the Book of Exodus Chapter 4 verse 31 and in the Book of Isaiah, Chapter 43 verse 10, in the 24 books of the Jewish Bible. The word translated as \"faith\" here is the Hebrew word אָמַן which can also be translated \"believe\", \"reliable\", and \"trustworthy\". In the Book of Isaiah, Chapter 43 verse 10, the commandment to know God is followed by the commandments to believe and to understand, thus denoting descending importance.\n\nHowever, Judaism does recognize the positive value of \"Emunah\" (generally translated as faith, trust in God) and the negative status of the \"Apikorus\" (heretic), but faith is not as stressed or as central as it is in other religions, especially compared with Christianity and Islam. It could be a necessary means for being a practicing religious Jew, but the emphasis is placed on true knowledge, true prophecy and practice rather than on faith itself. Very rarely does it relate to any teaching that must be believed. Judaism does not require one to explicitly identify God (a key tenet of Christian faith, which is called Avodah Zarah in Judaism, a minor form of idol worship, a big sin and strictly forbidden to Jews). Rather, in Judaism, one is to honour a (personal) idea of God, supported by the many principles quoted in the Talmud to define Judaism, mostly by what it is not. Thus there is no established formulation of Jewish principles of faith which are mandatory for all (observant) Jews.\n\nIn the Jewish scriptures trust in God – \"Emunah\" – refers to how God acts toward his people and how they are to respond to him; it is rooted in the everlasting covenant established in the Torah, notably Deuteronomy 7:9:\n\nThe specific tenets that compose required belief and their application to the times have been disputed throughout Jewish history. Today many, but not all, Orthodox Jews have accepted Maimonides' Thirteen Principles of Belief.\n\nA traditional example of \"Emunah\" as seen in the Jewish annals is found in the person of Abraham. On a number of occasions, Abraham both accepts statements from God that seem impossible and offers obedient actions in response to direction from God to do things that seem implausible (see Genesis 12-15).\n\"The Talmud describes how a thief also believes in G‑d: On the brink of his forced entry, as he is about to risk his life—and the life of his victim—he cries out with all sincerity, 'G‑d help me!' The thief has faith that there is a G‑d who hears his cries, yet it escapes him that this G‑d may be able to provide for him without requiring that he abrogate G‑d’s will by stealing from others. For \"emunah\" to affect him in this way he needs study and contemplation.\"\n\nFaith itself is not a religious concept in Sikhism. However, the five Sikh symbols, known as Kakaars or Five Ks (in Punjabi known as pañj kakkē or pañj kakār), are sometimes referred to as the \"Five articles of Faith\". The articles include \"kēs\" (uncut hair), \"kaṅghā\" (small wooden comb), \"kaṛā\" (circular steel or iron bracelet), \"kirpān\" (sword/dagger), and \"kacchera\" (special undergarment). Baptised Sikhs are bound to wear those five articles of faith, at all times, to save them from bad company and keep them close to God.\n\nThere is a wide spectrum of opinion with respect to the epistemological validity of faith - that is, whether it is a reliable way to acquire true beliefs.\n\nFideism is an epistemological theory which maintains that faith is independent of reason, or that reason and faith are hostile to each other and faith is superior at arriving at particular truths (see natural theology). Fideism is not a synonym for religious belief, but describes a particular philosophical proposition in regard to the relationship between faith's appropriate jurisdiction at arriving at truths, contrasted against reason. It states that faith is needed to determine some philosophical and religious truths, and it questions the ability of reason to arrive at all truth. The word and concept had its origin in the mid- to late-19th century by way of Catholic thought, in a movement called Traditionalism. The Roman Catholic Magisterium has, however, repeatedly condemned fideism.\n\nReligious epistemologists have formulated and defended reasons for the rationality of accepting belief in God without the support of an argument. Some religious epistemologists hold that belief in God is more analogous to belief in a person than belief in a scientific hypothesis. Human relations demand trust and commitment. If belief in God is more like belief in other persons, then the trust that is appropriate to persons will be appropriate to God. American psychologist and philosopher William James offers a similar argument in his lecture \"The Will to Believe.\" Foundationalism is a view about the structure of justification or knowledge. Foundationalism holds that all knowledge and justified belief are ultimately based upon what are called properly basic beliefs. This position is intended to resolve the infinite regress problem in epistemology. According to foundationalism, a belief is epistemically justified only if it is justified by properly basic beliefs. One of the significant developments in foundationalism is the rise of reformed epistemology.\n\nReformed epistemology is a view about the epistemology of religious belief, which holds that belief in God can be properly basic. Analytic philosophers Alvin Plantinga and Nicholas Wolterstorff develop this view. Plantinga holds that an individual may rationally believe in God even though the individual does not possess sufficient evidence to convince an agnostic. One difference between reformed epistemology and fideism is that the former requires defence against known objections, whereas the latter might dismiss such objections as irrelevant. Plantinga has developed reformed epistemology in \"Warranted Christian Belief\" as a form of externalism that holds that the justification conferring factors for a belief may include external factors. Some theistic philosophers have defended theism by granting evidentialism but supporting theism through deductive arguments whose premises are considered justifiable. Some of these arguments are probabilistic, either in the sense of having weight but being inconclusive, or in the sense of having a mathematical probability assigned to them. Notable in this regard are the cumulative arguments presented by British philosopher Basil Mitchell and analytic philosopher Richard Swinburne, whose arguments are based on Bayesian probability. In a notable exposition of his arguments, Swinburne appeals to an inference for the best explanation.\n\nProfessor of Mathematics and philosopher of science at University of Oxford John Lennox has stated, \"Faith is not a leap in the dark; it’s the exact opposite. It’s a commitment based on evidence… It is irrational to reduce all faith to blind faith and then subject it to ridicule. That provides a very anti-intellectual and convenient way of avoiding intelligent discussion.” He criticises Richard Dawkins as a famous proponent of asserting that faith equates to holding a belief without evidence, thus that it is possible to hold belief without evidence, for failing to provide evidence for this assertion.\n\nBertrand Russell wrote:\n\nEvolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins criticizes all faith by generalizing from specific faith in propositions that conflict directly with scientific evidence. He describes faith as belief without evidence; a process of active non-thinking. He states that it is a practice that only degrades our understanding of the natural world by allowing anyone to make a claim about nature that is based solely on their personal thoughts, and possibly distorted perceptions, that does not require testing against nature, has no ability to make reliable and consistent predictions, and is not subject to peer review.\n\nPhilosophy professor Peter Boghossian argues that reason and evidence are the only way to determine which \"claims about the world are likely true\". Different religious traditions make different religious claims, and Boghossian asserts that faith alone cannot resolve conflicts between these without evidence. He gives as an example of the belief held by that Muslims that Muhammad (who died in the year 632) was the last prophet, and the contradictory belief held by Mormons that Joseph Smith (born in 1805) was a prophet. Boghossian asserts that faith has no \"built-in corrective mechanism\". For factual claims, he gives the example of the belief that the Earth is 4,000 years old. With only faith and no reason or evidence, he argues, there is no way to correct this claim if it is inaccurate. Boghossian advocates thinking of faith either as \"belief without evidence\" or \"pretending to know things you don't know\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "277206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277206", "title": "Freethought", "text": "Freethought\n\nFreethought (or \"free thought\") is a philosophical viewpoint which holds that positions regarding truth should be formed on the basis of logic, reason, and empiricism, rather than authority, tradition, revelation, or dogma. In particular, freethought is strongly tied with rejection of traditional social or religious belief systems. The cognitive application of freethought is known as \"freethinking\", and practitioners of freethought are known as \"freethinkers\". The term first came into use in the 17th century in order to indicate people who inquired into the basis of traditional religious beliefs.\n\nFreethinkers hold that knowledge should be grounded in facts, scientific inquiry, and logic. The skeptical application of science implies freedom from the intellectually limiting effects of confirmation bias, cognitive bias, conventional wisdom, popular culture, prejudice, or sectarianism.\n\nModern freethinkers consider freethought as a natural freedom of all negative and illusive thoughts acquired from the society \n\nAtheist author Adam Lee defines freethought as thinking which is independent of revelation, tradition, established belief, and authority, and considers it as a \"broader umbrella\" than atheism \"that embraces a rainbow of unorthodoxy, religious dissent, skepticism, and unconventional thinking.\"\n\nThe basic summarizing statement of the essay \"The Ethics of Belief\" by the 19th-century British mathematician and philosopher William Kingdon Clifford is: \"It is wrong always, everywhere, and for anyone, to believe anything upon insufficient evidence.\" The essay became a rallying cry for freethinkers when published in the 1870s, and has been described as a point when freethinkers grabbed the moral high ground. Clifford was himself an organizer of freethought gatherings, the driving force behind the Congress of Liberal Thinkers held in 1878.\n\nRegarding religion, freethinkers typically hold that there is insufficient evidence to support the existence of supernatural phenomena. According to the Freedom from Religion Foundation, \"No one can be a freethinker who demands conformity to a bible, creed, or messiah. To the freethinker, revelation and faith are invalid, and orthodoxy is no guarantee of truth.\" and \"Freethinkers are convinced that religious claims have not withstood the tests of reason. Not only is there nothing to be gained by believing an untruth, but there is everything to lose when we sacrifice the indispensable tool of reason on the altar of superstition. Most freethinkers consider religion to be not only untrue, but harmful.\"\n\nHowever, philosopher Bertrand Russell wrote the following in his 1944 essay \"The Value of Free Thought:\"\n\nThe whole first paragraph of the essay makes it clear that a freethinker is not necessarily an atheist or an agnostic, as long as he or she satisfies this definition:\nFred Edwords, former executive of the American Humanist Association, suggests that by Russell's definition, liberal religionists who have challenged established orthodoxies can be considered freethinkers.\n\nOn the other hand, according to Bertrand Russell, atheists and/or agnostics are not necessarily freethinkers. As an example, he mentions Stalin, whom he compares to a \"pope\":\nIn the 18th and 19th century, many thinkers regarded as freethinkers were deists, arguing that the nature of God can only be known from a study of nature rather than from religious revelation. In the 18th century, \"deism\" was as much of a 'dirty word' as \"atheism\", and deists were often stigmatized as either atheists or at least as freethinkers by their Christian opponents. Deists today regard themselves as freethinkers, but are now arguably less prominent in the freethought movement than atheists.\n\nThe pansy serves as the long-established and enduring symbol of freethought; literature of the American Secular Union inaugurated its usage in the late 1800s. The reasoning behind the pansy as the symbol of freethought lies both in the flower's name and in its appearance. The pansy derives its name from the French word \"pensée\", which means \"thought\". It allegedly received this name because the flower is perceived by some to bear resemblance to a human face, and in mid-to-late summer it nods forward as if deep in thought.\n\nCritical thought has flourished in the Hellenistic Mediterranean, in the repositories of knowledge and wisdom in Ireland and in the Iranian civilizations (for example in the era of Khayyam (1048–1131) and his unorthodox Sufi \"Rubaiyat\" poems), and in other civilizations, such as the Chinese (note for example the seafaring renaissance of the Southern Song dynasty of 420–479), and on through heretical thinkers on esoteric alchemy or astrology, to the Renaissance and the Protestant Reformation.\n\nFrench physician and writer Rabelais celebrated \"rabelaisian\" freedom as well as good feasting and drinking (an expression and a symbol of freedom of the mind) in defiance of the hypocrisies of conformist orthodoxy in his utopian Thelema Abbey (from θέλημα: free \"will\"), the device of which was \"Do What Thou Wilt\":\n\nSo had Gargantua established it. In all their rule and strictest tie of their order there was but this one clause to be observed, Do What Thou Wilt; because free people ... act virtuously and avoid vice. They call this honor.\nWhen Rabelais's hero Pantagruel journeys to the \"Oracle of The Div(in)e Bottle\", he learns the lesson of life in one simple word: \"Trinch!\", Drink! Enjoy the simple life, learn wisdom and knowledge, as a free human. Beyond puns, irony, and satire, Gargantua's prologue-metaphor instructs the reader to \"break the bone and suck out the substance-full marrow\" (\"la substantifique moëlle\"), the core of wisdom.\n\nThe year 1600 is considered a landmark in the era of modern freethought. It was the year of the execution in Italy of Giordano Bruno, a former Dominican Monk, by the Inquisition.\n\nThe term \"free-thinker\" emerged towards the end of the 17th century in England to describe those who stood in opposition to the institution of the Church, and the literal belief in the Bible. The beliefs of these individuals were centered on the concept that people could understand the world through consideration of nature. Such positions were formally documented for the first time in 1697 by William Molyneux in a widely publicized letter to John Locke, and more extensively in 1713, when Anthony Collins wrote his \"Discourse of Free-thinking,\" which gained substantial popularity. This essay attacks the clergy of all churches and it is a plea for deism.\n\n\"The Freethinker\" magazine was first published in Britain in 1881.\n\nIn France, the concept first appeared in publication in 1765 when Denis Diderot, Jean le Rond d'Alembert, and Voltaire included an article on \"Liberté de penser\" in their Encyclopédie. The European freethought concepts spread so widely that even places as remote as the Jotunheimen, in Norway, had well-known freethinkers such as Jo Gjende by the 19th century.\n\nFrançois-Jean Lefebvre de la Barre (1745–1766) was a young French nobleman, famous for having been tortured and beheaded before his body was burnt on a pyre along with Voltaire's \"Philosophical Dictionary\". La Barre is often said to have been executed for not saluting a Roman Catholic religious procession, but the elements of the case were far more complex.\n\nIn France, Lefebvre de la Barre is widely regarded a symbol of the victims of Christian religious intolerance; La Barre along with Jean Calas and Pierre-Paul Sirven, was championed by Voltaire. A second replacement statue to de la Barre stands nearby the Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Jesus of Paris at the summit of the butte Montmartre (itself named from the \"Temple of Mars\"), the highest point in Paris and an 18th arrondissement street nearby the Sacré-Cœur is also named after Lefebvre de la Barre.\n\nIn Germany, during the period 1815–1848 and before the March Revolution, the resistance of citizens against the dogma of the church increased. In 1844, under the influence of Johannes Ronge and Robert Blum, belief in the rights of man, tolerance among men, and humanism grew, and by 1859 they had established the \"Bund Freireligiöser Gemeinden Deutschlands\" (literally \"Union of Free Religious Communities of Germany\"), an association of persons who consider themselves to be religious without adhering to any established and institutionalized church or sacerdotal cult. This union still exists today, and is included as a member in the umbrella organization of free humanists. In 1881 in Frankfurt am Main, Ludwig Büchner established the \"Deutscher Freidenkerbund\" (German Freethinkers League) as the first German organization for atheists and agnostics. In 1892 the \"Freidenker-Gesellschaft\" and in 1906 the \"Deutscher Monistenbund\" were formed.\n\nFreethought organizations developed the \"Jugendweihe\" (literally \"Youth consecration\"), a secular \"confirmation\" ceremony, and atheist funeral rites. The Union of Freethinkers for Cremation was founded in 1905, and the Central Union of German Proletariat Freethinker in 1908. The two groups merged in 1927, becoming the German Freethinking Association in 1930.\n\nMore \"bourgeois\" organizations declined after World War I, and \"proletarian\" Freethought groups proliferated, becoming an organization of socialist parties. European socialist freethought groups formed the International of Proletarian Freethinkers (IPF) in 1925. Activists agitated for Germans to disaffiliate from their respective Church and for seculari-zation of elementary schools; between 1919–21 and 1930–32 more than 2.5 million Germans, for the most part supporters of the Social Democratic and Communist parties, gave up church membership. Conflict developed between radical forces including the Soviet League of the Militant Godless and Social Democratic forces in Western Europe led by Theodor Hartwig and Max Sievers. In 1930 the Soviet and allied delegations, following a walk-out, took over the IPF and excluded the former leaders.\nFollowing Hitler's rise to power in 1933, most freethought organizations were banned, though some right-wing groups that worked with so-called \"Völkische Bünde\" (literally \"\"ethnic\" associations\" with nationalist, xenophobic and very often racist ideology) were tolerated by the Nazis until the mid-1930s.\n\nThe Université Libre de Bruxelles and the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, along with the two Circles of Free Inquiry (Dutch and French speaking), defend the freedom of critical thought, lay philosophy and ethics, while rejecting the argument of authority.\n\nIn the Netherlands, freethought has existed in organized form since the establishment of De Dageraad (now known as De Vrije Gedachte) in 1856. Among its most notable subscribing 19th century individuals were Johannes van Vloten, Multatuli, Adriaan Gerhard and Domela Nieuwenhuis.\n\nIn 2009, Frans van Dongen established the Atheist-Secular Party, which takes a considerably restrictive view of religion and public religious expressions.\n\nSince the 19th century, Freethought in the Netherlands has become more well known as a political phenomenon through at least three currents: liberal freethinking, conservative freethinking, and classical freethinking. In other words, parties which identify as freethinking tend to favor non-doctrinal, rational approaches to their preferred ideologies, and arose as secular alternatives to both clerically aligned parties as well as labor-aligned parties. Common themes among freethinking political parties are \"freedom\", \"liberty\", and \"individualism\".\n\nThe Free Thought movement first organized itself in the United States as the \"Free Press Association\" in 1827 in defense of George Houston, publisher of \"The Correspondent\", an early journal of Biblical criticism in an era when blasphemy convictions were still possible. Houston had helped found an Owenite community at Haverstraw, New York in 1826–27. The short-lived \"Correspondent\" was superseded by the \"Free Enquirer\", the official organ of Robert Owen's New Harmony community in Indiana, edited by Robert Dale Owen and by Fanny Wright between 1828 and 1832 in New York. During this time Robert Dale Owen sought to introduce the philosophic skepticism of the Free Thought movement into the Workingmen's Party in New York City. The \"Free Enquirer\"'s annual civic celebrations of Paine's birthday after 1825 finally coalesced in 1836 in the first national Free Thinkers organization, the \"United States Moral and Philosophical Society for the General Diffusion of Useful Knowledge\". It was founded on August 1, 1836, at a national convention at the Lyceum in Saratoga Springs with Isaac S. Smith of Buffalo, New York, as president. Smith was also the 1836 Equal Rights Party's candidate for Governor of New York and had also been the Workingmen's Party candidate for Lt. Governor of New York in 1830. The Moral and Philosophical Society published \"The Beacon\", edited by Gilbert Vale.\nDriven by the revolutions of 1848 in the German states, the 19th century saw an immigration of German freethinkers and anti-clericalists to the United States (see Forty-Eighters). In the United States, they hoped to be able to live by their principles, without interference from government and church authorities.\n\nMany Freethinkers settled in German immigrant strongholds, including St. Louis, Indianapolis, Wisconsin, and Texas, where they founded the town of Comfort, Texas, as well as others.\n\nThese groups of German Freethinkers referred to their organizations as \"Freie Gemeinden\", or \"free congregations\". The first Freie Gemeinde was established in St. Louis in 1850. Others followed in Pennsylvania, California, Washington, D.C., New York, Illinois, Wisconsin, Texas, and other states.\n\nFreethinkers tended to be liberal, espousing ideals such as racial, social, and sexual equality, and the abolition of slavery.\n\nThe \"Golden Age of Freethought\" in the US came in the late 1800s. The dominant organization was the National Liberal League which formed in 1876 in Philadelphia. This group re-formed itself in 1885 as the American Secular Union under the leadership of the eminent agnostic orator Robert G. Ingersoll. Following Ingersoll's death in 1899 the organization declined, in part due to lack of effective leadership.\n\nFreethought in the United States declined in the early twentieth century. Its anti-religious views alienated would-be sympathizers. The movement also lacked cohesive goals or beliefs. By the early twentieth century, most Freethought congregations had disbanded or joined other mainstream churches. The longest continuously operating Freethought congregation in America is the Free Congregation of Sauk County, Wisconsin, which was founded in 1852 and is still active . It affiliated with the American Unitarian Association (now the Unitarian Universalist Association) in 1955. D. M. Bennett was the founder and publisher of \"The Truth Seeker\" in 1873, a radical freethought and reform American periodical.\n\nGerman Freethinker settlements were located in:\n\nIn 1873 a handful of secularists founded the earliest known secular organization in English Canada, the Toronto Freethought Association. Reorganized in 1877 and again in 1881, when it was renamed the Toronto Secular Society, the group formed the nucleus of the Canadian Secular Union, established in 1884 to bring together freethinkers from across the country.\n\nA significant number of the early members appear to have come from the educated labour \"aristocracy\", including Alfred F. Jury, J. Ick Evans and J. I. Livingstone, all of whom were leading labour activists and secularists. The second president of the Toronto association, T. Phillips Thompson, became a central figure in the city's labour and social-reform movements during the 1880s and 1890s and arguably Canada's foremost late nineteenth-century labour intellectual. By the early 1880s scattered freethought organizations operated throughout southern Ontario and parts of Quebec, eliciting both urban and rural support.\n\nThe principal organ of the freethought movement in Canada was \"Secular Thought\" (Toronto, 1887–1911). Founded and edited during its first several years by English freethinker Charles Watts (1835–1906), it came under the editorship of Toronto printer and publisher James Spencer Ellis in 1891 when Watts returned to England.\n\nIn 1968 the Humanist Association of Canada (HAC) formed to serve as an umbrella group for humanists, atheists, and freethinkers, and to champion social justice issues and oppose religious influence on public policy—most notably in the fight to make access to abortion free and legal in Canada. HAC, also known as Humanist Canada, operates as an active voice for humanism in Canada and supports the activities of groups who wish to raise awareness about secular issues.\n\nThe Canadian Secular Alliance is an active community.\n\nIn the United States, \"freethought was a basically anti-christian, anti-clerical movement, whose purpose was to make the individual politically and spiritually free to decide for himself on religious matters. A number of contributors to \"Liberty\" were prominent figures in both freethought and anarchism. The individualist anarchist George MacDonald was a co-editor of \"Freethought\" and, for a time, \"The Truth Seeker.\" E.C. Walker was co-editor of the freethought/free love journal \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\".\" \"Many of the anarchists were ardent freethinkers; reprints from freethought papers such as \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\", \"Freethought\" and \"The Truth Seeker\" appeared in \"Liberty\"...The church was viewed as a common ally of the state and as a repressive force in and of itself.\"\n\nIn Europe, a similar development occurred in French and Spanish individualist anarchist circles. \"Anticlericalism, just as in the rest of the libertarian movement, in another of the frequent elements which will gain relevance related to the measure in which the (French) Republic begins to have conflicts with the church...Anti-clerical discourse, frequently called for by the French individualist André Lorulot, will have its impacts in \"Estudios\" (a Spanish individualist anarchist publication). There will be an attack on institutionalized religion for the responsibility that it had in the past on negative developments, for its irrationality which makes it a counterpoint of philosophical and scientific progress. There will be a criticism of proselitism and ideological manipulation which happens on both believers and agnostics\". These tendencies will continue in French individualist anarchism in the work and activism of Charles-Auguste Bontemps and others. In the Spanish individualist anarchist magazines \"Ética\" and \"Iniciales\" \"there is a strong interest in publishing scientific news, usually linked to a certain atheist and anti-theist obsession, philosophy which will also work for pointing out the incompatibility between science and religion, faith, and reason. In this way there will be a lot of talk on Darwin´s theories or on the negation of the existence of the soul\".\n\nIn 1901, Catalan anarchist and freethinker Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia established \"modern\" or progressive schools in Barcelona in defiance of an educational system controlled by the Catholic Church. The schools' stated goal was to \"educate the working class in a rational, secular and non-coercive setting\". Fiercely anti-clerical, Ferrer believed in \"freedom in education\", education free from the authority of church and state. Ferrer's ideas, generally, formed the inspiration for a series of Modern Schools in the United States, Cuba, South America and London. The first of these was started in New York City in 1911. It also inspired the Italian newspaper \"Università popolare\", founded in 1901.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3815869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3815869", "title": "Great Commandment", "text": "Great Commandment\n\nThe Great Commandment (or Greatest Commandment) is a name used in the New Testament to describe the first of two commandments cited by Jesus in and . These two commandments are paraphrases taken from the Old Testament and are commonly seen as important to Jewish and Christian ethics.\n\nIn Mark, when asked \"which is the great commandment in the law?\", the Greek New Testament reports that Jesus answered, \"Hear, O Israel! The Lord our God, The Lord is One; Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind\", before also referring to a second commandment, \"Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.\" Most Christian denominations consider these two commandments to be the core of correct Christian lifestyle.\n\nIn the Gospel of Mark, the Shema is included:\n\nMatthew Henry sums up the question of which is the great commandment:\n\nAdam Clarke, in his \"Commentary on the Bible\", wrote:\n\n\"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God\" is explained to mean \"Act in such a manner that God will be beloved by all His creatures.\" Consequently, Israel, being, as the priest-people, enjoined like the Aaronite priest to sanctify the name of God and avoid whatever tends to desecrate it (Lev. xxii. 32), is not only obliged to give his life as witness or martyr for the maintenance of the true faith (see Isa. xliii. 12, μάρτυρες; and Pesik. 102b; Sifra, Emor, ix.), but so to conduct himself in every way as to prevent the name of God from being dishonored by non-Israelites.\n\nTwice every day the Jew recites the \"Shema Yisrael\", which contains the words: \"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might\" (Deut. vi. 5). This verse is understood to enjoin him to willingly surrender life and fortune whenever the cause of God demands it, while it at the same time urges him to make God beloved by all his creatures through deeds of kindness, as Abraham did (Sifre, Deut. 32).\n\nAlthough only asked about the first commandment, Jesus included the second commandment in his answer. This double reference has given rise to differing views with regard to the relationship that exists between the two commandments, although typically \"love thy God\" is referred to as \"the first and greatest commandment\", with \"love thy neighbour\" being referred to as \"the second great commandment\". It may simply reflect the \"seven rules (Middot) of Hillel\", in this case the first one, called Ḳal wa-ḥomer (Hebrew: קל וחומר).\n\nWhen asked which is the greatest commandment, the \"Christian New Testament\" depicts Jesus paraphrasing the Torah: \"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind,\" before also paraphrasing a second passage; \"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.\" Most Christian denominations view these two commandments as, together, forming the core of the Christian religion. The second passage is considered to be a form of the Golden Rule (circa 1300 BCE).\n\n"}
{"id": "53871046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53871046", "title": "Healing Church in Rhode Island", "text": "Healing Church in Rhode Island\n\nThe Healing Church in Rhode Island is a Rhode Island-based religious sect whose adherents believe that cannabis (or marijuana) is a \"holy herb\" and use it in religious rituals. Leaders of the group attracted attention in 2015 for attempting to smoke marijuana in front of the Roger Williams National Memorial (a memorial to Roger Williams, a pioneer of religious freedom and one of the smallest National Parks) as part of a religious service. One of the church members said that bhang was consumed during the service on federal property, to avoid a no-smoking rule. The following year, two leaders of the group were arrested and charged in connection with a marijuana grow operation. Days before the arrest, the pair had filed a lawsuit in federal district court, contending that enforcement of state anti-marijuana laws against those who use marijuana for religious purposes violates the U.S. Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "8999824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8999824", "title": "Hierophany", "text": "Hierophany\n\nA hierophany is a manifestation of the sacred. The word is a formation of the Greek adjective \"hieros\" (; sacred/holy) and the verb \"phainein\" (φαίνειν; to reveal / to bring to light).\n\nWhen the sacred is revealed in some form or other to an entity, it brings with it great pleasure and suffering, as one who has become familiar with the Godhead would ascribe. This information can be then used by the recipient to assist others on their own path.\n\nThe word \"hierophany\" recurs frequently in the works of the religious historian Mircea Eliade, which he preferred to the more constrictive word \"theophany\" (an appearance of a god).\n\nEliade argues that religion is based on a sharp distinction between the sacred (God, gods, mythical ancestors, etc.) and the profane. According to Eliade, for traditional man, myths describe \"breakthroughs of the sacred (or the 'supernatural') into the World\"—that is, hierophanies. \n\nIn the hierophanies recorded in myth, the sacred appears in the form of ideal models (the actions and commandments of gods, heroes, etc.). By manifesting itself as an ideal model, the sacred gives the world value, direction, and purpose: \"The manifestation of the sacred, ontologically founds the world\". According to this view, all things need to imitate or conform to the sacred models established by hierophanies, in order to have true reality: to traditional man, things \"acquire their reality, their identity, only to the extent of their participation in a transcendent reality\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22772796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22772796", "title": "History of religious pluralism", "text": "History of religious pluralism\n\nThe history of religious pluralism is the fruit of a long development that reaches from antiquity to contemporary trends in postmodernity.\n\nIndia has been a place of fertile religious endeavour since the latter part of the Vedic period. Jainism and Buddhism, which were part of the \"sramana\" movement have been from their inception religions motivated by compassion for all creatures as well as believers in the inherent rationality and reasonableness of true religion. They have thus sought and advocated rational debate concerning matters of truth. India is, in fact, as far as we can tell the home of the first written statement of religious pluralism, tolerance and interfaith dialogue. The Rock Edict XII by the Emperor Ashoka states the following:\n\nReligious tolerance was promoted to varying degrees during the course of several Muslim settlements (Delhi Sultanate 1276-1526 AD and the Mughal Empire 1526–1857 AD). In the 8th century, Zoroastrianism was established in India as Zoroastrians fled from Persia to India in large numbers, where they were given refuge. The colonial phase ushered in by the British lasted until 1947 and furthered conversions to Christianity among low caste Hindus. In 1948 as many as 20,000 Jews Bene Jews and Cochin Jews lived in India, though most of them have since emigrated to Israel.\n\nAlthough in Japan Buddhism and Shinto have more or less co-existed for centuries, the arrival of Christianity through Francis Xavier led to widespread persecution of Christians and the eventual exclusion of Christianity for hundreds of years until the Meiji era, as the rulers of Japan saw it as a threat. Christians and Buddhists were also persecuted under State Shinto.\n\nMongols were highly tolerant of most religions during the early Mongol Empire, and typically sponsored several at the same time. To avoid strife, Genghis Khan set up an institution that ensured complete religious freedom, though he himself was a shamanist. Under his administration, all religious leaders were exempt from taxation, and from public service. Mongol emperors were known for organizing competitions of religious debates among clerics, and these would draw large audiences.\n\nReligious pluralism existed in medieval Islamic law and Islamic ethics, as the religious laws and courts of other religions, including Christianity, Judaism and Hinduism, were usually accommodated within the Islamic legal framework, as exemplified in the Caliphate, Al-Andalus, Ottoman Empire and Indian subcontinent.\n\nIn medieval Islamic societies, the \"qadi\" (Islamic judges) usually could not interfere in the matters of non-Muslims unless the parties voluntarily choose to be judged according to Islamic law, thus the \"dhimmi\" communities living in Islamic states usually had their own laws independent from the Sharia law, such as the Jews who would have their own \"Halakha\" courts. Islamic empires allowed non-believers to have their own laws and courts in exchange for a Jizya poll tax.\n\nDhimmis were allowed to operate their own courts following their own legal systems in cases that did not involve other religious groups, or capital offences or threats to public order. Non-Muslims were allowed to engage in religious practices that was usually forbidden by Islamic law, such as the consumption of alcohol and pork, as well as religious practices which Muslims found repugnant, such as the Zoroastrian practice of incestuous \"self-marriage\" where a man could marry his mother, sister or daughter. According to the famous Islamic legal scholar Ibn Qayyim (1292-1350), non-Muslims had the right to engage in such religious practices even if it offended Muslims, under the conditions that such cases not be presented to Islamic Sharia courts and that these religious minorities believed that the practice in question is permissible according to their religion.\n\nThe polytheistic Roman empire saw the traditional Roman religion as one fundamentals of the Roman republic. They saw Roman virtues as an important link in their multi-ethnic empire. Being polytheistic, Romans did not mind if conquered nations went on worshiping their traditional gods, as long as they also presented token offerings to the Roman gods. In many cases this compromise was easily reached by identifying the traditional gods with similar Roman gods. Failure to offer up this token worship was seen as disloyal to Rome, and an act of political rebellion against the Emperor. \n\nThere was, though, a problem with people whose religion excluded the veneration of other gods - especially the Jews and the Christians. The Romans tended to view this as rebellion, and so it resulted in many conflicts arising from often unintended offenses, like putting a statue of an emperor in a prominent place in Jerusalem which resulted in a public revolt. Similarly difficult to understand for the Roman mindset was the attitude of Christians who rather chose torture or death instead of offering incense to the Roman emperor. From the Roman view, the refusal to venerate the Roman emperor was political treason.\n\nThe edict of Milan which decreed tolerance of Christianity was followed by a time of parallel existence of Christianity and paganism which was, though, far from an actual religious pluralism - the religion of the emperor was always at an advantage, and the Arian, trinitarian and pagan emperors in the fourth century saw it as perfectly legitimate to take measures against religious leaders who did not share their belief. By the fifth century, the western Roman Empire had crumbled, but the same patterns of behavior continued in the eastern Roman Empire along with the Gaulish, Celtic, and Germanic kingdoms that replaced the west.\n\nAfter the breakdown of the Roman Empire in the west, in western Europe the population was a huge, diverse mix of Latin peoples, Germanic peoples who had been absorbed into the Empire and its Legions over the course of hundreds of years, and newly arriving Germanic tribes that were migrating into western Europe. In each of these vaguely defined categories were some Christians, some pagans, and some who subscribed to some elements of both. In the German tradition, the chief of the tribe was also religious leader, so conversion of the leaders (even if for political reasons) was followed in many cases by Christianization of the tribe - with the chief of the tribe being now the de facto head of the Christian church. There were very frequent instances of parallel pagan and Christian religion, but tolerance of old or new religion was up to the personal preference of the local lord. \n\nThe tradition of the head of the tribe as head of the church was continued by the Kings which these chieftains eventually evolved into, with the king and/or emperor holding by virtue of office the right of investiture of bishops and also of deciding in religious matters - Charlemagne, e.g., took the Pope to task for not using the filioque in the Nicene Creed. The religion of the ruler was the official religion of the people and, again, any tolerance of foreigners or remnants of pagans was up to the present ruler. The unity of religion was generally seen as a prerequisite for any worldly state - a divergent religion was in the consequence not regarded just as a religious problem but also an action against state and ruler punishable by criminal law.\n\nIn the high Middle Ages, the worldly powers clashed with the power of the pope on the matter of deciding about religious questions - \nwhile the details varied by country, the overall result was that the Roman Catholic Church was able to, for a short time, exercise control over the religious practices of countries, even against that Ruler's will.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation broke away from the Catholic Church over religious policy and belief in Europe and touched off the 30-years War which involved virtually every nation on the European continent. Much of the fighting occurred between German and Swiss nobility who had sided with Martin Luther and John Calvin's Protestant movement, and French and Spanish forces under the command of the then-French Papacy. After the religious wars, the general rule was \"cuius regio, eius religio\" - the countries and principalities had to adopt the religion of their respective ruler, while divergent people were left with the choice between submission or emigration.\n\nRestrictions on smaller Protestant sects who disagreed with the national churches in these countries prompted such groups as the Pilgrim Fathers to seek freedom in North America, although when these became the majority they sometimes sought to deny this freedom to Jews and Roman Catholics.\n\nIn Transylvania it was declared in 1568 at Turda the religious tolerance for every religion and it was realised the religious pluralism. The role of authority was to supervise the peaceful religious cohabitation between Catholics, Calvinist, Lutheran, antirtinitarians, orthodox, sabbatharians, Jews and Muslims. The Transylvanian situation remained for long time an isolated fearful model of \"diabolic liberty\" (Beze, Basel,1569)but was well known and appreciated between religious persecuted antitrinitarians in Holland and in England.\n\nIn the second half of the seventeenth century, partially out of being tired with the religious wars, partially influenced by early enlightenment, several countries adopted some sort of tolerance for other denominations, e.g. the Peace of Westphalia 1653 or the Edict of Tolerance in England in 1689.\n\nProtestant and freethinking philosophers like John Locke and Thomas Paine, who argued for tolerance and moderation in religion, were strongly influential on the Founding Fathers, and the modern religious freedom and equality underlying religious pluralism in the United States are guaranteed by First Amendment to the United States Constitution, which states:\n\nIn the United States religious pluralism can be said to be overseen by the secular state, which guarantees equality under law between different religions, whether these religion have a handful of adherents or many millions. The state also guarantees the freedom of those who choose not to belong to any religion. \n\nWhile the United States had to begin with no dominant religion or denomination, this was very different in European countries who have, except for some Balkan states, a history with one dominant Christian denomination whose influence on their culture is felt until present times. Enlightenment in Europe did not so much promote the rights of minority religions but the rights of individuals to express beliefs diverging from the mainstream religion of the country, while belonging to that religion or being outside of it. While European countries generally went the way of gradually increasing the rights for minority denominations and religions, up to today the stress has been more on the freedom of belief of the individual, whereas the rights of religious organizations are often limited by the state to prevent them intruding upon the individual religious freedom.\n"}
{"id": "48470636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48470636", "title": "International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation", "text": "International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation\n\nThe International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation (IHEYO) is the youth wing of the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU), founded in 2002. It aims to network young humanists around the world together, support training and promote humanist values for the age category of 18–35. It is an umbrella organisation representing around 40,000 young people across the world.\n\nThe International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation (IHEYO) is the international umbrella organisation for Humanist youth organisations. IHEYO's main identity is to bring into active association youth groups and young humanist individuals throughout the world interested in promoting humanism, as is described in the IHEU Amsterdam Declaration 2002. IHEYO brings together people who describe themselves as humanists, atheists, agnostics, freethinkers, skeptics and similar views.\n\nThe vision of IHEYO is to give a voice to young humanists within the mission of IHEU. The mission of IHEU is to build and represent the global humanist movement that defends human rights and promotes humanist values worldwide. IHEYO does this by organising international networking events, offering training, connecting youth through social media and by its work in regional working groups. These activities empower IHEYO’s members to achieve their individual, local and regional goals.\n\nIHEYO members form the young humanist communities and campaign for political and cultural change in a diverse range of areas such as religious freedom, women's rights, education rights, abortion rights, LGBTIQ rights, equality, human rights, freedom of speech/thought/belief, public communication of science.\n\nIHEYO was formally established in 2003, but it was not completely a 21st-century construct. The first version of IHEYO was launched in 1966, and lasted around ten years. In the ‘80s, it was again revived for a similar period of time. But it was not until 2001, when the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) started an internship programme, that the idea of re-establishing IHEYO as an international humanist youth network was revived in a lasting way.\n\nFull members:\nIHEYO's Working Groups are the forum through which Humanist organisations can get in touch and work together with others in the same region. There are four Working Groups: the Asian Humanist Alliance, African Working Group, European Working Group and Americans Working Group.\n\nThe African Working Group (in short: AfWG) of IHEYO was established around 2005. It organises regional meetings in East and West Africa. The African Working Group is mainly organised in East Africa (Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya, Rwanda, etc.) and West Africa (Nigeria, Ghana, Liberia, Cameroon, etc.). The Fourth Annual IHEYO East African Regional Working Group Meeting was held in Kigali on 26–28 August 2015.\n\nThe American Working group is the newest and launched in Washington DC in May 2015 at the Future of Ethical Societies Annual conference.\nThis working group covered Canada, the United States of America, Central America and South America.\n\nThe Asian Working Group is a joint humanist effort in this continent to foster humanist values and ideas. Since its inception in 2007, it has published information −bulletins, has had regular meetings and organised events. The Working Group has members in Pakistan, India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore and the Philippines.\n\nThe European Working group (EWG) combines all IHEYO member organisations in Europe. The EWG has annual face-to-face meetings to coordinate the international exchanges taking place at events organised in Europe, including the European Humanist Youth Days (EHYD).\n\nEvents\n\nBetter Tomorrow is IHEYO's annual charity event. Its concept was based on the British student federation AHS's Non-Prophet Week.\n\n"}
{"id": "16016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16016", "title": "Jainism", "text": "Jainism\n\nJainism (), traditionally known as Jain Dharma, is an ancient Indian religion. Followers of Jainism are called \"Jains\", a word derived from the Sanskrit word \"jina\" (victor) and connoting the path of victory in crossing over life's stream of rebirths through an ethical and spiritual life Jains trace their history through a succession of twenty-four victorious saviours and teachers known as \"tirthankaras\", with the first being Rishabhanatha, who according to Jain tradition lived millions of years ago, and twenty-fourth being the Mahāvīra around 500 BCE. Jains believe that Jainism is an eternal \"dharma\" with the \"tirthankaras\" guiding every cycle of the Jain cosmology.\n\nThe main religious premises of Jainism are \"ahiṃsā\" (\"non-violence\"), \"anekāntavāda\" (\"many-sidedness\"), \"aparigraha\" (\"non-attachment\") and \"asceticism\". Devout Jains take five main vows: \"ahiṃsā\" (\"non-violence\"), \"satya\" (\"truth\"), \"asteya\" (\"not stealing\"), \"brahmacharya\" (\"celibacy or chastity\"), and \"aparigraha\" (\"non-attachment\"). These principles have impacted Jain culture in many ways, such as leading to a predominantly vegetarian lifestyle that avoids harm to animals and their life cycles. \"Parasparopagraho Jīvānām\" (\"the function of souls is to help one another\") is the motto of Jainism. \"Ṇamōkāra mantra\" is the most common and basic prayer in Jainism.\n\nJainism has two major ancient sub-traditions, Digambaras and Śvētāmbaras; and several smaller sub-traditions that emerged in the 2nd millennium CE. The Digambaras and Śvētāmbaras have different views on ascetic practices, gender and which Jain texts can be considered canonical. Jain mendicants are found in all Jain sub-traditions, with laypersons (\"śrāvakas\") supporting the mendicants' spiritual pursuits with resources.\n\nJainism has between four and five million followers, with most Jains residing in India. Outside India, some of the largest Jain communities are present in Canada, Europe, Kenya, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Suriname, Fiji, and the United States. Major Jain festivals include Paryushana and Daslakshana, Mahavir Jayanti, and Diwali.\n\nThe principle of \"ahimsa\" (\"non-violence\" or \"non-injury\") is a fundamental tenet of Jainism. It believes that one must abandon all violent activity, and without such a commitment to non-violence all religious behavior is worthless. In Jain theology, it does not matter how correct or defensible the violence may be, one must not kill any being, and \"non-violence is one's highest religious duty\".\n\nJain texts such as \"Acaranga Sūtra\" and \"Tattvarthasūtra\" state that one must renounce all killing of living beings, whether tiny or large, movable or immovable. Its theology teaches that one must neither kill another living being, nor cause another to kill, nor consent to any killing directly or indirectly. Furthermore, Jainism emphasizes non-violence against all beings not only in action but also in speech and in thought. It states that instead of hate or violence against anyone, \"all living creatures must help each other\". Violence negatively affects and destroys one's soul, particularly when the violence is done with intent, hate or carelessness, or when one indirectly causes or consents to the killing of a human or non-human living being.\n\nThe idea of reverence for non-violence (\"ahiṃsā\") is founded in Hindu and Buddhist canonical texts, and it may have origins in more ancient Brahmanical Vedic thoughts. However, no other Indian religion has developed the non-violence doctrine and its implications on everyday life as has Jainism.\n\nThe theological basis of non-violence as the highest religious duty has been interpreted by some Jain scholars not to \"be driven by merit from giving or compassion to other creatures, nor a duty to rescue all creatures\", but resulting from \"continual self-discipline\", a cleansing of the soul that leads to one's own spiritual development which ultimately affects one's salvation and release from rebirths. Causing injury to any being in any form creates bad karma which affects one's rebirth, future well being and suffering.\n\nLate medieval Jain scholars re-examined the \"Ahiṃsā\" doctrine when one is faced with external threat or violence. For example, they justified violence by monks to protect nuns. According to Dundas, the Jain scholar Jinadatta Suri wrote during a time of Muslim destruction of temples and persecution that \"anybody engaged in a religious activity who was forced to fight and kill somebody would not lose any spiritual merit but instead attain deliverance\". However, such examples in Jain texts that condone fighting and killing under certain circumstances are relatively rare.\n\nThe second main principle of Jainism is \"anekāntavāda\" or \"anekantatva\", a word derived from \"anekānta\" (\"not one ended, sided\", \"many-sidedness\" or \"manifoldness\") and \"vada\" (\"doctrine\", \"way\").\n\nThe \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine states that truth and reality is complex and always has multiple aspects. Reality can be experienced, but it is not possible to totally express it with language. Human attempts to communicate is \"Naya\", explained as \"partial expression of the truth\". Language is not Truth, but a means and attempt to express Truth. From Truth, according to Mahāvīra, language returns and not the other way round. One can experience the truth of a taste, but cannot fully express that taste through language. Any attempts to express the experience is \"syāt\", or valid \"in some respect\" but it remains a \"perhaps, just one perspective, incomplete\". In the same way, spiritual truths are complex, they have multiple aspects, and language cannot express their plurality, yet through effort and appropriate karma they can be experienced. Since reality is many-sided the great error, according to Jainism, is \"ekānta\" (one-sidedness) where some relative truth is treated as an absolute truth to the exclusion of others.\n\nThe \"anekāntavāda\" premise of the Jains is ancient, as evidenced by its mention in Buddhist texts such as the \"Samaññaphala Sutta\". The Jain Agamas suggest that Mahāvīra's approach to answering all metaphysical philosophical questions was a \"qualified yes\" (\"syāt\"). These texts identify \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine to be one of the key differences between the teachings of the Mahāvīra and those of the Buddha. The Buddha taught the Middle Way, rejecting extremes of the answer \"it is\" or \"it is not\" to metaphysical questions. The Mahāvīra, in contrast, taught his followers to accept both \"it is\", and \"it is not\", with \"perhaps\" qualification and with reconciliation to understand the Absolute Reality. \"Syādvāda\" (predication logic) and \"nayavāda\" (perspective epistemology) of Jainism expand on the concept of \"anekāntavāda\". \"Syādvāda\" recommends the expression of \"anekānta\" by prefixing the epithet \"syād\" to every phrase or expression describing the \"permanent being\". There is no creator God in Jainism; existence has neither beginning nor end, and the permanent being is conceptualized as \"jiva\" (\"soul\") and \"ajiva\" (\"matter\") within a dualistic \"anekāntavāda\" framework.\n\nAccording to Paul Dundas, in contemporary times the \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine has been interpreted by some Jains as intending to \"promote a universal religious tolerance\", and a teaching of \"plurality\" and \"benign attitude to other [ethical, religious] positions\". Dundas states this is problematic and a misreading of Jain historical texts and Mahāvīra's teachings. The \"many pointedness, multiple perspective\" teachings of the Mahāvīra is a doctrine about the nature of absolute reality and human existence, and it is sometimes called \"non-absolutism\" doctrine. However, it is not a doctrine about tolerating or condoning activities such as sacrificing or killing animals for food, nor violence against disbelievers or any other living being as \"perhaps right\". The five vows for Jain monks and nuns, for example, are strict requirements and there is no \"perhaps\" or \"that is just one perspective\" about them. Similarly, since ancient times, Jainism co-existed with Buddhism and Hinduism according to Dundas, but Jainism was highly critical of the knowledge systems and ideologies of its rivals, and vice versa.\n\nThe third main principle in Jainism is \"aparigraha\" which means non-attachment to worldly possessions. For ascetics, Jainism requires a vow of complete non-possession of any property. For Jain laypersons, it recommends limited possession of property that has been honestly earned, and giving excess property to charity. According to Natubhai Shah, \"aparigraha\" applies to both the material and the psychic. Material possessions refer to various forms of property. Psychic possessions refer to emotions, likes and dislikes, and attachments of any form. Unchecked attachment to possessions is said to result in direct harm to one's personality.\n\nJainism views attachments to material or emotional possessions as what leads to passions, which in turn leads to violence. According to the \"aparigraha\" principle, a Jain monk or nun is expected to be homeless and family-less with no emotional longings or attachments. The ascetic is a wandering mendicant in the Digambara tradition, or a resident mendicant in the Śvētāmbara tradition.\n\nIn addition, Jain texts mention that \"attachment to possessions\" (\"parigraha\") is of two kinds: attachment to internal possessions (\"ābhyantara parigraha\"), and attachment to external possessions (\"bāhya parigraha\"). For internal possessions, Jainism identifies four key passions of the mind (\"kashaya\"): anger, pride (ego), deceitfulness, and greed. In addition to the four passions of the mind, the remaining ten internal passions are: wrong belief, the three sex-passions (male sex-passion, female sex-passion, neuter sex-passion), and the six defects (laughter, like, dislike, sorrow, fear, disgust).\n\nJainism teaches five ethical duties, which it calls five vows. These are called \"anuvratas\" (\"small vows\") for Jain laypersons, and \"mahavratas\" (\"great vows\") for Jain mendicants. For both, its moral precepts preface that the Jain has access to a \"guru\" (\"teacher\", \"counsellor\"), \"deva\" (\"Jina\", \"god\"), doctrine, and that the individual is free from five offences: doubts about the faith, indecisiveness about the truths of Jainism, sincere desire for Jain teachings, recognition of fellow Jains, and admiration for their spiritual pursuits. Such a person undertakes the following Five vows of Jainism:\n\nOf all the major Indian religions, Jainism has had the strongest austerity-driven ascetic tradition, and it is an essential part of a mendicant's spiritual pursuits. Ascetic life may include nakedness symbolizing non-possession of even clothes, fasting, body mortification, penance, and other austerities, in order to burn away past karma and stop producing new karma, both of which are believed in Jainism to be essential for reaching \"siddha\" and \"moksha\" (\"liberation from rebirths\", and \"salvation\").\n\nJain texts like \"Tattvartha Sūtra\" and \"Uttaradhyayana Sūtra\" discuss ascetic austerities to great lengths and formulations. Six outer and six inner practices are most common, and oft-repeated in later Jain texts. According to John Cort, outer austerities include complete fasting, eating limited amounts, eating restricted items, abstaining from tasty foods, mortifying the flesh, and guarding the flesh (avoiding anything that is a source of temptation). Inner austerities include expiation, confession, respecting and assisting mendicants, studying, meditation, and ignoring bodily wants in order to abandon the body.\n\nLists of internal and external austerities in Jainism varies with the text and tradition. Asceticism is viewed as a means to control desires, and a means to purify the \"jiva\" (\"soul\"). The \"tirthankaras\" of Jainism, such as the Mahāvīra (Vardhamana) set an example of leading an ascetic life by performing severe austerities for twelve years.\n\nThe practice of non-violence towards all living beings has led to Jain culture being vegetarian. Devout Jains practice lacto-vegetarianism, that is eat no eggs, but accept dairy products if there is no violence against animals during their production. Veganism is encouraged if there are concerns about animal welfare. Jain monks and nuns do not eat root vegetables such as potatoes, onions and garlic because tiny organisms are injured when the plant is pulled up, and because a bulb or tuber's ability to sprout is seen as characteristic of a higher living being.\n\nJains fast on different occasions throughout the year, particularly during festivals. This practice is called \"upavasa\", \"tapasya\" or \"vrata\". According to Singh, this takes on various forms and may be practised based on one's ability. Some examples include Digambara fasting for \"Dasa-laksana-parvan\" where a Jain layperson eats only one or two meals per day, drinking only boiled water for ten days, or fasting completely on the first and last day of the festival. With these practices the layperson mimics the practices of a Jain mendicant during the festival. A similar practice is found among Śvētāmbara Jains on eight day \"paryusana\" with \"samvatsari-pratikramana\".\n\nThe fasting practice is believed to remove karma from one's soul and allow one to gain merit (\"punya\"). A \"one day\" fast in Jain tradition lasts about 36 hours, starting at sunset before the day of the fast and ending 48 minutes after the sunrise the day after. Among laypeople, fasting is more commonly observed by women, where it is believed that this shows her piety, religious purity, gains her and her family prestige, leads to merit earning and helps ensure future well-being for her family. Some religious fasts are observed as a group where Jain women bond socially and support each other. Long fasts are celebrated by friends and families with special ceremonies.\n\nJainism considers meditation (\"dhyana\") a necessary practice, but its goals are very different from those in Buddhism and Hinduism. In Jainism, meditation is concerned more with stopping karmic attachments and activity, not as a means to transformational insights or self-realization in other Indian religions. Meditation in early Jain literature is a form of austerity and ascetic practice in Jainism, while in late medieval era the practice adopted ideas from other Indian traditions. According to Paul Dundas, this lack of meditative practices in early Jain texts may be because substantial portions of ancient Jain texts were lost.\n\nAccording to Padmanabh Jaini, \"Sāmāyika\" is a practice of \"brief periods in meditation\" in Jainism that is a part of \"siksavrata\" (\"ritual restraint\"). The goal of \"Sāmāyika\" is to achieve equanimity, and it is the second \"siksavrata\". The \"samayika\" ritual is practiced at least three times a day by mendicants, while a layperson includes it with other ritual practices such as \"Puja\" in a Jain temple and doing charity work. According to Johnson, as well as Jaini, \"samayika\" connotes more than meditation, and for a Jain householder is the voluntary ritual practice of \"assuming temporary ascetic status\".\n\nThe Digambara Jain scholar Kundakunda, in his \"Pravacanasara\" states that a Jain mendicant should meditate on \"I, the pure self\". Anyone who considers his body or possessions as \"I am this, this is mine\" is on the wrong road, while one who meditates, thinking the antithesis and \"I am not others, they are not mine, I am one knowledge\" is on the right road to meditating on the \"soul, the pure self\".\n\nThere are many rituals in Jainism's various sects. According to Dundas, the ritualistic lay path among Śvētāmbara Jains is \"heavily imbued with ascetic values\", where the rituals either revere or celebrate the ascetic life of Tirthankaras, or mendicants, or progressively get closer to psychologically and physically living ever more like an ascetic. The ultimate ritual is \"sallekhana\", a religious death through ascetic abandonment of food and drinks. The Digambara Jains follow the same theme, but the details differ from Śvētāmbaras, and according to Dundas, the life cycle and religious rituals are closer to the liturgy found among Hindu traditions. The overlap in Jain and Hindu rituals is largely in the life cycle (rites-of-passage) rituals, according to Padmanabh Jaini, and likely one that developed over time because Jains and Hindus societies overlapped, and rituals were viewed as necessary and secular ceremonies.\n\nJains do not believe in a creator god, but do ritually worship numerous deities. The Jinas are prominent and a large focus of this ritualism, but they are not the only \"deva\" in Jainism. A Jina as \"deva\" is not an avatar (incarnation) in Jainism, but the highest state of omniscience that an ascetic \"tirthankara\" achieved. Out of the 24 Tirthankaras, Jain devotional worship is predominantly addressed to four: Mahāvīra, Parshvanatha, Neminatha and Rishabhanatha. Among the non-\"tirthankara\" saints, devotional worship is common for Bahubali among the Digambaras. Some of Jaina rituals remember the five life events of the \"tirthankaras\", called the \"Panch Kalyanaka\", are rituals such as the \"Panch Kalyanaka Pratishtha Mahotsava\", \"Panch Kalyanaka Puja\" and \"Snatrapuja\".\nThe basic worship ritual practised by Jains is \"darsana\" (\"seeing\") of \"deva\", which includes Jina, or other yaksas, gods and goddesses such as Brahmadeva, 52 Viras, Padmavati, Ambika and 16 Vidyadevis (Sarasvati, Lakshmi, others). The Terapanthi sub-tradition of Digambaras do not worship many of the deities popular among mainstream Digambaras, and they limit their ritual worship to Tirthankaras. The worship ritual is called the \"devapuja\", is found in all Jaina sub traditions, which share common features. Typically, the Jaina layperson enters the temple inner sanctum in simple clothing and bare feet, with a plate filled with offerings, bows down, says the namaskara, completes his or her litany and prayers, sometimes is assisted by the temple priest, leaves the offerings and then departs.\n\nJain practices include performing \"abhisheka\" (\"ceremonial bath\") of the images. Some Jain sects employ a \"pujari\" (also called \"upadhye\") for rituals, who may be a non-Jain (a Hindu), to perform special rituals and other priestly duties at the temple. More elaborate worship includes ritual offerings such as rice, fresh and dry fruits, flowers, coconut, sweets, and money. Some may light up a lamp with camphor and make auspicious marks with sandalwood paste. Devotees also recite Jain texts, particularly the life stories of the tirthankaras.\n\nThe traditional Jains, like Buddhists and Hindus, believe in the efficacy of mantras and that certain sounds and words are inherently auspicious, powerful and spiritual. The most famous of the mantras, broadly accepted in various sects of Jainism, is the \"five homage\" (\"panca namaskara\") mantra which is believed to be eternal and existent since the first ford-maker's time. The medieval era Jain worship practices, according to Ellen Gough, also developed tantric diagrams of the \"Rishi-mandala\" where the \"tirthankaras\" are portrayed. The Tantric traditions within Jainism use mantra and rituals that are believed to accrue merit for rebirth realms.\n\nJains celebrate many annual festivals. Many of the major festivals in Jainism fall in and around the \"comasu\" (Sanskrit: \"chaturmasa\") period of the calendar. It is the four month monsoon period when the Jain ascetics are mandated to remain in residence at one place in the Jain tradition, rather than be traveling or going around Indian villages and towns and never staying in one place for more than a month. The \"comasu\" period allows the four orders of the Jain community to be together and participate in the festive remembrances.\n\nThe most important annual Jain festival is called the \"Paryushana\" by Svetambaras and \"Dasa lakshana parva\" by the Digambaras. It is celebrated from the 12th day of waning moon in the traditional luni-solar month of Bhadrapada in the Indian calendar. This typically falls in August or September of the Gregorian calendar. It lasts eight days for Svetambaras, and ten days among the Digambaras. It is a time when lay people fast and pray. The five vows are emphasized during this time. Svetambaras recite the \"Kalpasūtras\", while Digambaras read their own texts. The festival is an occasion where Jains make active effort to stop cruelty towards other life forms, freeing animals in captivity and preventing slaughter of animals.\nThe last day involves a focused prayer/meditation session known as \"Samvatsari\". Jains consider this as a day of atonement, granting forgiveness to others, seeking forgiveness from all living beings, physically or mentally asking for forgiveness and resolving to treat everyone in the world as friends. Forgiveness is asked by saying \"\"Micchami Dukkadam\" or \"Khamat Khamna\"\" to others. This means, \"If I have offended you in any way, knowingly or unknowingly, in thought, word or action, then I seek your forgiveness.\" The literal meaning of \"Paryushana\" is \"abiding\" or \"coming together\".\n\nMahavir Jayanti celebrates the birth of Mahāvīra. It is celebrated on the 13th day of the luni-solar month of Chaitra in the traditional Indian calendar. This typically falls in March or April of the Gregorian calendar. The festivities include visiting Jain temples, pilgrimages to shrines, reading Jain texts and processions of Mahāvīra by the community. At his legendary birthplace of Kundagrama in Bihar, north of Patna, special events are held by Jains.\n\nDiwali is observed by Jains as the anniversary of Mahāvīra's attainment of \"moksha\". The Hindu festival of Diwali is also celebrated on the same date (\"Kartika Amavasya\"). Jain temples, homes, offices, and shops are decorated with lights and \"diyas\" (\"small oil lamps\"). The lights are symbolic of knowledge or removal of ignorance. Sweets are often distributed. On Diwali morning, \"Nirvan Ladoo\" is offered after praying to Mahāvīra in all Jain temples across the world. The Jain new year starts right after Diwali. Some other festivals celebrated by Jains are Akshaya Tritiya and Raksha Bandhan, similar to those in the Hindu communities.\n\nJainism monastic organization is a part of Jain society called \"sangh\". A \"sangh\" has a four-fold order, or \"caturvidh, sakal sangh\". This consists of \"sadhu\" (male ascetics, \"muni\"), \"sadhvi\" (female ascetics, \"aryika\"), \"śrāvaka\" (\"laymen\"), and \"śrāvikā\" (\"laywoman\"). The latter two support the ascetics and their monastic organizations called \"gacch\" or \"samuday\", in autonomous regional Jain congregations.\n\nDigambar tradition has two main monastic orders Mula Sangh and the Kashtha Sangh, both led by Bhattarakas. Other notable monastic orders include the Digambara Terapanth which emerged in the 17th century. Śvētāmbaras have their own \"sanghs\", but unlike Digambaras which have had predominantly \"sadhu sanghs\" (male monastic organizations), they have major \"sadhu\" and \"sadhvi\" \"sanghs\" (monks and nuns).\nAccording to Śvētāmbara Jain texts, from \"Kalpasūtras\" onwards, its monastic community has had more \"sadhvis\" than \"sadhus\" (female than male mendicants). In \"Tapa Gacch\" of the modern era, the ratio of \"sadhvis\" to \"sadhus\" (nuns to monks) is about 3.5 to 1. In contrast to Śvētāmbara, the Digambara sect monastic community has been predominantly male. In the Digambara tradition, a male human being is considered closest to the apex with the potential to achieve his soul's liberation from rebirths through asceticism. Women must gain karmic merit, to be reborn as man, and only then can they achieve spiritual liberation in the Digambara sect of Jainism. The Śvētāmbaras disagree with the Digambaras, believing that women can also achieve liberation from \"Saṃsāra\" through ascetic practices.\n\nThe Jain monastic organization shares many parallels with those found in Buddhist and Brahmanical-Hindu monasticism. They all have similar rules, hierarchical structure, practices such as not traveling during the four-month monsoon season and celibacy. According to William Johnston, this is not likely from mutual borrowing of ideas, but because these traditions emerged from the same ancient Indian monastic traditions that preceded the Buddha and the Mahāvīra. There are some differences. For example, the Jain and Hindu monastic community has been traditionally more mobile and had an itinerant lifestyle, while Buddhist monks have favored belonging to a \"sangha\" (monastery) and staying in its premises. Buddhist monastic rules forbid a monk to go outside without wearing the sangha's distinctive ruddy robe, or to use wooden bowls. In contrast, Jain monastic rules have either required no clothes (Digambara) or white (Śvētāmbara) and the use of wooden or empty gourd as the begging bowl. The Jain monastic rules have encouraged the use of mouth cover, as well as a broom to gently remove any insect that comes in their path.\n\nJainism also prescribes seven supplementary vows which include three \"guņa vratas\" (\"merit vows\") and four \"śikşā vratas\".\n\nThe \"Sallekhana\" (or \"Santhara\") vow is a \"religious death\" ritual vow observed at the end of life, historically by Jain monks and nuns, but rare in the modern age. In this vow, there is voluntary and gradual reduction of food and liquid intake to end one's life by choice and with dispassion, In Jainism this is believed to reduce negative karma that affects a soul's future rebirths.\n\nThe Jain community is divided into two major denominations, Digambara and Śvētāmbara. Monks of the Digambara (\"sky-clad\") tradition do not wear clothes. Female monastics of the Digambara sect wear unstitched plain white sarees and are referred to as \"Aryikas\". Śvētāmbara (\"white-clad\") monastics, on the other hand, wear seamless white clothes.\n\nDuring Chandragupta Maurya's reign, Jain tradition states that \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu predicted a twelve-year-long famine and moved to Karnataka with his disciples. Sthulabhadra, a pupil of \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu, stayed in Magadha. Later, when followers of \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu returned, they found those who had remained at Magadha had started wearing white clothes, which was unacceptable to the others who remained naked. This is how Jains believe the Digambara and Śvētāmbara schism began, with the former being naked while the latter wore white clothes. Digambara saw this as being opposed to the Jain tenet of \"aparigraha\" which, according to them, required not even possession of clothes, i.e. complete nudity. In the 5th-century CE, the Council of Valabhi was organized by Śvētāmbara, which Digambara did not attend. At the council, the Śvētāmbara adopted the texts they had preserved as canonical scriptures, which Digambara have ever since rejected. This council solidified the historic schism between these two major traditions of Jainism. The earliest record of Digambara beliefs is contained in the Prakrit \"Suttapahuda\" of Kundakunda.\nOther than rejecting or accepting different ancient Jain texts, Digambaras and Śvētāmbara differ in other significant ways such as:\n\nExcavations at Mathura revealed Jain statues from the time of the Kushan Empire (c.1st century CE). \"Tirthankara\" represented without clothes, and monks with cloth wrapped around the left arm, are identified as the \"Ardhaphalaka\" (\"half-clothed\") mentioned in texts. The Yapaniyas, believed to have originated from the \"Ardhaphalaka\", followed Digambara nudity along with several Śvētāmbara beliefs.\n\nBoth of the major Jain traditions evolved into sub-traditions over time. For example, the devotional worship traditions of Śvētāmbara are referred to as \"Murti-pujakas\", those who live in and around Jain temples became \"Deravasi\" or \"Mandira-margi\". Those who avoid temples and pursue their spirituality at a designated monastic meeting place came to be known as \"Sthānakavāsī\". About the 18th century, the Śvētāmbara and Digambara traditions saw an emergence of separate Terapanthi movements. Some scholars such as Malvaniya state that these ideas entered Jainism from an influence of Islam, while others such as Dundas state that these ideas, debates and movements can be traced in more ancient texts than the start of Islam.\n\nIn the modern era, according to Flügel, new Jaina religious movements that are a \"primarily devotional form of Jainism\" have developed which resemble \"Jain Mahayana\" style devotionalism.\n\nA male human being is considered closest to the apex with the potential to achieve liberation, particularly through asceticism. In the Digambara traditional belief, women must gain karmic merit, to be reborn as man, and only then can they achieve spiritual liberation. However, this view has been historically debated within Jainism and different Jaina sects have expressed different views, particularly the Śvētāmbara sect that believes that women too can achieve spiritual liberation from rebirths in \"Saṃsāra\". The \"Śvētāmbaras\" state the 19th \"Tirthankara\" Māllīnātha was female. However, Digambara reject this, and worship Mallinatha as a male.\n\nThe \"dravya\" in Jainism are fundamental entities, called \"astikaya\" (literally, \"collection that exists\"). They are believed to be eternal, and the ontological building blocks that constitute and explain all existence, whether perceived or not.\n\nAccording to the Śvētāmbara tradition of Jainism, there are five eternal substances in existence: Soul (\"jiva\"), Matter (\"pudgala\"), Space (\"akasha\"), motion (\"Dharma\") and rest (\"Adharma\"). To this list of five, the Digambara Jain tradition adds \"Time\" (\"kala\") as the sixth eternal substance. In both traditions, the substance of space is conceptualized as \"world space\" (\"lokakasha\") and \"non-world space\" (\"alokiakasha\"). Further, both soul and matter are considered as active ontological substances, while the rest are inactive. Another categorization found in Jain philosophy is \"jiva\" and \"ajiva\", the latter being all \"dravya\" that is not \"jiva\".\n\n\"Jiva\" means \"soul\" in Jainism, and is also called \"jivatman\". It is a core concept and the fundamental focus of the Jain theology. The soul is believed to be eternal, and a substance that undergoes constant modifications, in every life, after every rebirth of a living being. \"Jiva\" consists of pure consciousness in the Jain thought, has innate \"free will\" that causes it to act but is believed to be intangible and formless. It is the soul that experiences existence and gains knowledge, not mind nor body both believed to a heap of matter. Jain philosophy further believes that the soul is the mechanism of rebirth, and karma accumulation. It is the same size in all living beings, such as a human being, a tiny insect and a large elephant. \"Jiva\" is everywhere, filling and infused in every minuscule part of the entire \"loka\" (realm of existence), according to Jainism. The soul has the potential to reach omniscience and eternal bliss, and end the cycles of rebirth and associated suffering, which is the goal of Jain spirituality.\n\nThe \"jiva\" is believed to rely on other \"dravya\" to function. The Jain philosophy completely separates body (matter) from the soul (consciousness). Souls reside in bodies and journey endlessly through \"saṃsāra\" (that is, realms of existence through cycles of rebirths and redeaths).\n\n\"Jivas\" are believed to be of two types, stationary and mobile. Illustration of the former are plants, while moving \"jivas\" include examples such as human beings, animals, gods, hell beings and insects. \"Jivas\" are further classified in Jain philosophy by assigned number of senses which range from one sensory organ to five sensory organs. Inert world such as air, fire or clod of dirt, considered non-sensate in contemporary science, are asserted in historic texts of Jainism to be living and with sensory powers.\n\n\"Ajiva\" consists of everything other than \"jiva\". Life processes such as breath, means of knowledge such as language, all emotional and biological experiences such as pleasure and pain are all believed in Jainism to be made of \"pudgala\" (\"matter\"). These interact with \"tattva\" or reality to create, bind, destroy or unbind karma particles to the soul.\n\nAccording to Dundas, \"Dharma\" as a metaphysical substance in Jain philosophy may be understood as \"that which carries\" instead of the literal sense of ordinary physical motion. Thus, \"dharma\" includes all verbal and mental activity, that contribute to karma and purification of the soul.\n\n\"Tattva\" connotes \"Reality, Truth\" in Jain philosophy, and is the framework for salvation. According to Digambara Jains, there are seven \"tattvas\", while Śvētāmbaras believe in nine \"tattvas\":\n\nThe true insight in Jain philosophy is considered as \"faith in the \"tattvas\"\". The spiritual goal in Jainism is to reach \"moksha\" for ascetics, but for most Jain laypersons and ascetics it is to accumulate good karma that leads to better rebirth and a step closer to liberation.\n\nAccording to Jainism, the existence of \"a bound and ever changing soul\" is a self-evident truth, an axiom which does not need to be proven. There are numerous souls, but every one of them has three qualities (\"Guṇa\"): consciousness (\"caitanya\", most important quality of soul), bliss (\"sukha\") and vibrational energy (\"virya\"). The vibration draws karmic particles to the soul and creates bondages, but is also what adds merit or demerit to the soul.\n\nKarma, like in other Indian religions, connotes in Jainism the universal cause and effect law. However, it is envisioned as a material substance (subtle matter) that can bind to the soul, travel with the soul substance in bound form between rebirths, and affect the suffering and happiness experienced by the \"jiva\" in the \"lokas\". Karma is also believed to obscure and obstruct the innate nature and striving of the soul, as well as its spiritual potential in the next rebirth.\n\nThe relationship between the soul and karma, states Padmanabh Jaini, can be explained with the analogy of gold. Like gold is always found mixed with impurities in its original state, Jainism holds that the soul is not pure at its origin but is always impure and defiled like natural gold. One can exert effort and purify gold, similarly, Jainism states that the defiled soul can be purified by proper refining methodology. Karma either defiles the soul further, or refines it to a cleaner state, and this affects future rebirths. Karma is thus an efficient cause (\"nimitta\") in Jain philosophy, but not the material cause (\"upadana\"). The soul is believed to be the material cause.\n\n\"Tirthankara-nama-karma\" is a special type of karma, bondage of which raises a soul to the supreme status of a \"tirthankara\".\nJain texts state that souls exist as \"clothed with material bodies\", where it entirely fills up the body. There are five types of bodies in the Jaina thought: earthly (e.g. most humans, animals and plants), metamorphic (e.g. gods, hell beings, fine matter, some animals and a few humans who can morph because of their perfections), transference type (e.g. good and pure substances realized by ascetics), fiery (e.g. heat that transforms or digests food), and karmic (the substrate where the karmic particles reside and which make the soul ever changing).\n\nJain philosophy further divides the earthly body by symmetry, number of sensory organs, vitalities (\"ayus\"), functional capabilities and whether one body hosts one soul or one body hosts many. Every living being has one to five senses, three \"balas\" (power of body, language and mind), respiration (inhalation and exhalation), and life-duration. All living beings, in every realm including the gods and hell beings, accrue and destroy eight types of karma according to the elaborate theories in Jain texts. Elaborate descriptions of the shape and function of the physical and metaphysical universe, and its constituents, are also provided in the Jain texts. All of these elaborate theories attempt to illustrate and consistently explain the Jain karma theory in a deeply moral framework, much like Buddhism and Hinduism but with significant differences in the details and assumptions.\n\nThe conceptual framework of the Saṃsāra doctrine differs between the Jainism traditions and other Indian religions. For instance, in Jaina traditions, soul (\"jiva\") is accepted as a truth, as is assumed in the Hindu traditions. It is not assumed in the Buddhist traditions. However, Saṃsāra or the cycle of rebirths, has a definite beginning and end in Jainism. The Jaina theosophy, unlike Hindu and Buddhist theosophies, asserts that each soul passes through 8,400,000 birth-situations, as they circle through \"Saṃsāra\". As the soul cycles, states Padmanabh Jaini, Jainism traditions believe that it goes through five types of bodies: earth bodies, water bodies, fire bodies, air bodies and vegetable lives. With all human and non-human activities, such as rainfall, agriculture, eating and even breathing, minuscule living beings are taking birth or dying, their souls are believed to be constantly changing bodies. Perturbing, harming or killing any life form, including any human being, is considered a sin in Jainism, with negative karmic effects.\n\nSouls begin their journey in a primordial state, and exist in a state of consciousness continuum that is constantly evolving through \"Saṃsāra\". Some evolve to a higher state; some regress asserts the Jaina theory, a movement that is driven by the karma. Further, Jaina traditions believe that there exist \"Abhavya\" (\"incapable\"), or a class of souls that can never attain \"moksha\" (\"liberation\"). The \"Abhavya\" state of soul is entered after an intentional and shockingly evil act. Jainism considers souls as pluralistic each in a karma-samsara cycle, and does not subscribe to \"Advaita\"-style (\"not two\") nondualism of Hinduism, or \"Advaya\"-style nondualism of Buddhism. A liberated soul in Jainism is one who has gone beyond \"Saṃsāra\", is at the apex, is omniscient, remains there eternally, and is known as a \"Siddha\".\n\nJain texts propound that the universe consists of many eternal \"lokas\" (\"realms of existence\"). As in Buddhism and Hinduism, Jain cosmology believes both time and the universe are eternal without beginning and end, and that the universe is transient (impermanent in attributes) at the same time. The universe, body, matter and time are considered in Jain philosophy as separate from the soul (\"jiva\" or \"jivatman\"). Their interaction explains life, living, death and rebirth.\nAccording to the Jain texts, the universe is divided into three parts, the upper, middle, and lower worlds, called respectively \"urdhva loka\", \"madhya loka\", and \"adho loka\". As with the realms of existences, \"Kāla\" (\"time\") is without beginning and eternal; the cosmic wheel of time, called \"kālachakra\", rotates ceaselessly. According to Jain texts, in this part of the universe, there are six periods of time within two aeons (\"ara\"), and in the first aeon the universe generates, and in the next it degenerates. Thus, the worldly cycle of time is divided into two parts or half-cycles, \"utsarpiṇī\" (\"ascending\") and \"avasarpiṇī\" (\"descending\"). \"Utsarpiṇī\" is a period of progressive prosperity, where happiness increases, while \"avasarpiṇī\" is a period of increasing sorrow and immorality. According to Jain cosmology, it is currently the fifth \"ara\" of \"avasarpiṇī\" (half time cycle of degeneration). The present age is one of sorrow and misery, of religious decline, where the height and shape of living beings shrink. Jain thought holds that after the sixth \"ara\", the universe will be reawakened in the new cycle and the start of \"utsarpiṇī\" \"aras\".\n\nAccording to Jain texts, sixty-three illustrious beings, called \"śalākāpuruṣas\", are born on this earth in every \"Dukhama-sukhamā\" \"ara\". The Jain universal history is a compilation of the deeds of these illustrious persons. They comprise twenty-four \"Tīrthaṅkaras\", twelve \"chakravartins\", nine \"balabhadra\", nine \"narayana\", and nine \"pratinarayana\".\n\nA \"chakravartī\" is an emperor of the world and lord of the material realm. Though he possesses worldly power, he often finds his ambitions dwarfed by the vastness of the cosmos. Jain \"puranas\" give a list of twelve \"chakravartins\" (\"universal monarchs\"). They are golden in complexion. One of the \"chakravartins\" mentioned in Jain scriptures is Bharata Chakravartin. Jain texts like \"Harivamsa Purana\" and Hindu Texts like \"Vishnu Purana\" state that Indian subcontinent came to be known as \"Bharata varsha\" in his memory.\n\nThere are nine sets of \"balabhadra\", \"narayana\", and \"pratinarayana\". The \"balabhadra\" and \"narayana\" are brothers. \"Balabhadra\" are nonviolent heroes, \"narayana\" are violent heroes, and \"pratinarayana\" the villains. According to the legends, the \"narayana\" ultimately kill the \"pratinarayana\". Of the nine \"balabhadra\", eight attain liberation and the last goes to heaven. On death, the \"narayana\" go to hell because of their violent exploits, even if these were intended to uphold righteousness.\n\nJain cosmology divides the worldly cycle of time into two parts (\"avasarpiṇī\" and \"utsarpiṇī\"). According to Jain belief, in every half-cycle of time, twenty-four \"tīrthaṅkaras\" are born in the human realm to discover and teach the Jain doctrine appropriate for that era. The word \"tīrthankara\" signifies the founder of a \"tirtha\", which means a fordable passage across a sea. The \"tīrthaṅkaras\" show the 'fordable path' across the sea of interminable births and deaths. Rishabhanatha is said to be the first \"tīrthankara\" of the present half-cycle (\"avasarpiṇī\"). Mahāvīra (6th century BC) is revered as the twenty fourth \"tīrthankara\" of \"avasarpiṇī\". Jain texts explain that Jainism has always existed and will always exist.\n\nIn Jainism, perfect souls \"with\" the body are called \"arihant\" (\"victors\") and perfect souls \"without\" the body are called \"Siddhas\" (\"liberated souls\").\n\nAccording to Jainism, the universe was never created, nor will it ever cease to exist. It is independent and self-sufficient, does not require a creator nor any superior power to govern it, nor a judge nor destroyer. In this belief, it is distinct from the monotheistic Abrahamic religions; it is similar to Buddhism. It shares premises with the non-theistic part of the spectrum of diverse beliefs found in different traditions within Hindu philosophy and distinct from theistic Hindu traditions.\n\nJain texts reject the idea of a creator, ruler or destroyer god and postulate an eternal universe. However, Jainism believes in the world of gods and hell beings who are born, and who die to be reborn like living beings in the earthly realm of existence. Those souls who live in the body of a god do so because of their positive karma. They have a metamorphic body, that is they are believed in Jain thought to be able to change their body at will. The gods live a life of happiness, fun and frolic, whose wishes are automatically fulfilled. They also possess a more transcendent knowledge about material things and can anticipate events in the human realms. However, once their past karmic merit is exhausted, the souls leave the \"god body\" and are reborn again as humans, animals or other beings.\n\nJain philosophy accepts three reliable means of knowledge (\"pramana\"). It holds that correct knowledge is based on perception (\"pratyaksa\"), inference (\"anumana\") and testimony (\"sabda\" or the word of scriptures). These ideas are elaborated in Jain texts such as \"Tattvarthasūtra\", \"Parvacanasara\", \"Nandi\" and \"Anuyogadvarini\". Some Jain texts add analogy (\"upamana\") as the fourth reliable means, in a manner similar to epistemological theories found in other Indian religions.\n\nIn Jainism, \"jnāna\" (\"knowledge\") is said to be of five kinds—\"Kevala Jnana\" (\"Omniscience\"), \"Śrutu Jñāna\" (\"Scriptural Knowledge\"), \"Mati Jñāna\" (\"Sensory Knowledge\"), \"Avadhi Jñāna\" (\"Clairvoyance\"), and \"Manah prayāya Jñāna\" (\"Telepathy\"). According to the Jain text \"Tattvartha sūtra\", the first two are indirect knowledge and the remaining three are direct knowledge.\n\nAccording to Jainism, purification of soul and liberation can be achieved through the path of three jewels:\n\nJain texts often add \"samyak tap\" (Correct Asceticism) as the fourth jewel, thereby emphasizing their belief in ascetic practices as the means to liberation (moksha). The four jewels of orthodox Jain ideology are called \"moksha marg\". According to Jain texts, the liberated pure soul (\"Siddha\") goes up to the summit of universe (\"Siddhashila\") and dwells there in eternal bliss.\n\nJain scriptures are called \"Agamas\". They are believed to have been verbally transmitted by the oral tradition from one generation to the next, much like the ancient Buddhist and Hindu texts. The Jain tradition believes that their religion is eternal, and the teachings of their first \"Tirthankara Rishabhanatha\" were their scriptures millions of years ago. The mythology states that the \"tirthankara\" taught in a divine preaching hall called \"samavasarana\", which were heard by the gods, the ascetics and laypersons. The discourse delivered is called \"Śhrut Jnāna\" and comprises eleven \"angas\" and fourteen \"purvas\". The discourse is remembered and transmitted by the \"Ganadharas\" (\"chief disciples\"), and is composed of twelve \"angas\" (\"departments\"). It is symbolically represented by a tree with twelve branches.\n\nAccording to the Jain tradition, an \"araha\" (\"worthy one\") speaks meaning that is then converted into \"sūtra\" (\"sutta\") by his disciples, and from such \"sūtras\" emerge the doctrine. The creation and transmission of the \"Agama\" is the work of disciples in Jainism. These texts, historically for Jains, have represented the truths uttered by their \"tirthankaras\", particularly the Mahāvīra. In every cycle of Jain cosmology, twenty-four \"tirthankaras\" appear and so do the Jain scriptures for that \"ara\". The spoken scriptural language is believed to be \"Ardhamagadhi\" by the Śvētāmbara Jains, and a form of sonic resonance by the Digambara Jains. These then become coded into \"duvala samgagani pidaga\" (twelve limbed baskets by disciples), but transmitted orally. In the 980th year after Mahāvīra's death (~5th century CE), the texts were written down for the first time by the Council of Valabhi.\n\nThe Śvētāmbaras believe that they have the original Jain scriptures. The Śvētāmbara belief is denied by the Digambaras, who instead believe the scriptures were lost. The Śvētāmbaras state that their collection of 45 works represent a continuous tradition, though they accept that their collection is also incomplete because of a lost Anga text and four lost Purva texts. The Digambara sect of Jainism believes that Āchārya Bhutabali was the last ascetic who had partial knowledge of the original canon. According to them, Digambara \"Āchāryas\" recreated the oldest-known Digambara Jain texts, including the four \"anuyoga\". According to von Glasenapp, the Digambara texts partially agree with the enumerations and works of older Śvētāmbara texts, but in many cases there are also gross differences between the texts of the two major Jain traditions.\n\nThe Śvētāmbara consider their 45 text collection as canonical. The Digambaras created a secondary canon between 600 and 900 CE, compiling it into four groups: history, cosmography, philosophy and ethics. This four-set collection is called the \"four \"Vedas\"\" by the Digambaras.\n\nThe most popular and influential texts of Jainism have been its non-canonical literature. Of these, the \"Kalpa Sūtras\" are particularly popular among Śvētāmbaras, which they attribute to Bhadrabahu (c. 300 BCE). This ancient scholar is revered in the Digambara tradition, and they believe he led their migration into the ancient south Karnataka region, and created their tradition. Śvētāmbaras disagree, and they believe that Bhadrabahu moved to Nepal, not into peninsular India. Both traditions, however, consider his \"Niryuktis\" and \"Samhitas\" as important texts. The earliest surviving Sanskrit text by Umaswati called the \"Tattvarthasūtra\" is considered authoritative Jain philosophy text by all traditions of Jainism. His text has the same importance in Jainism as \"Vedanta Sūtras\" and \"Yogasūtras\" have in Hinduism.\n\nIn the Digambara tradition, the texts written by Kundakunda are highly revered and have been historically influential. Other important Jain texts include: \"Samayasara\", \"Ratnakaranda śrāvakācāra\", and \"Niyamasara\".\n\nParts of the Sangam literature in Tamil are attributed to Jaina authors. The authenticity and interpolations are controversial, because the Sangam literature presents Hindu ideas. Some scholars state that the Jain portions of the Sangam literature were added about or after the 8th-century CE, and they are not the ancient layer.\n\nTamil Jain texts such as the \"Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi\" and \"Nālaṭiyār\" are credited to Digambara Jain authors. These texts have seen interpolations and revisions. For example, it is generally accepted now that the Jain nun Kanti inserted a 445-verse poem into \"Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi\" in the 12th century. The Tamil Jain literature, according to Dundas, has been \"lovingly studied and commented upon for centuries by Hindus as well as Jains\". The themes of two of the Tamil epics, including the \"Silapadikkaram\", have an embedded influence of Jainism.\n\nJain scholars also contributed to Kannada literature. The Digambara Jain texts in Karnataka are unusual, in that they were written under the patronage of kings and regional aristocrats. These Jain texts describe warrior violence and martial valor as equivalent to a \"fully committed Jain ascetic\". They thus set aside the religious premise of absolute non-violence, possibly reflecting an effort to syncretise various doctrines and beliefs found in Hinduism and Jainism.\n\nJain manuscript libraries, called \"bhandaras\" inside Jain temples, are the oldest surviving in India. Jain libraries, including the Śvētāmbara collections at Patan, Gujarat and Jaiselmer, Rajasthan, as well as the Digambara collections in Karnataka temples, have a large number of well-preserved manuscripts. The manuscripts in the Jain libraries include Jaina literature, as well as Hindu and Buddhist texts. Almost all their texts have been dated to about, or after, the 11th century CE. The largest and most valuable libraries are found in the Thar Desert, hidden in the underground vaults of Jain temples. These collections have witnessed insect damage, and only a small portion of these manuscripts have been published and studied by scholars.\n\nJainism differs from both Buddhism and Hinduism in its ontological premises. All of them believe in impermanence, but Buddhism incorporates, amongst other things, the premise of \"anatta\" (\"non-self\", \"no eternal self or soul\"). Hinduism incorporates the premise of an eternal unchanging \"atman\" (\"self\", \"soul\"), while Jainism incorporates the premises of a \"jiva\" (\"self\", \"soul\") that is both eternal and changing. In Jaina thought, there are infinite eternal \"jivas\", predominantly all of which are in their cycles of rebirth, and a few who have liberated themselves through an ascetic life and become \"siddhas\" (\"a perfect one\"). In contrast to Jainism, Hindu philosophies express a spectrum of views, ranging from nondualism where all souls are identical as Brahman and posited as interconnected one, to dualism where souls are same and have Brahman-nature but are different from Brahman, and to other ideas. Further, in Hindu thought, Jainism-style asceticism is not emphasized, rather liberation is achievable through alternate paths such as Jnana yoga, Karma yoga and Bhakti yoga.\n\nWhile both Hinduism and Jainism believe \"soul exists\" to be a self-evident truth, most Hindu systems consider it to be eternally present, infinite and the constant (\"vibhu\") but some Hindu scholars proposed soul to be atomic. The Hindu thought generally discusses Atman and Brahman through a monistic or dualistic framework. In contrast, the Jaina thought denies the Hindu metaphysical concept of Brahman, and Jain philosophy considers the soul to be ever changing and bound to the body or matter for each lifetime, thereby having a finite size that infuses the entire body of a living being.\n\nSome early colonial scholars stated that Jainism like Buddhism was, in part, a rejection of the caste system in Hinduism. Later scholars, such as Gombrich state that this notion is an error for which \"mainly Western authors are responsible\". A caste system has been a historic part of Jain society. According to Vilas Adinath Sangave, \"caste system is a universal feature of the Jaina community\", and the focus of Jainism has been the spiritual liberation of the individual rather than social reforms. According to Padamnath Jaini, the 8th-century Digambara scholar Jinasena stated that Jain king Bharata, the son of first \"tirthankara\" named Rishabhanatha, invented the caste system by performing the \"ahiṃsā\" (non-violence) test, with Jain Brahmins being those who followed the non-violence precept.\n\nAll three religions share concepts and doctrines such as karma and rebirth, and have similar ritual festival grammar, mythologies and monastic traditions. They do not believe in eternal heaven or hell or judgment day. Jainism, like Buddhism and Hinduism, grants the freedom to choose beliefs such as in gods or no-gods, agree or disagree with core teachings, participate or not participate in prayers, rituals and festivals. They all consider ethical values such as non-violence to be important, and link suffering to craving, individual's actions, intents and karma, and believe spirituality is a means to enlightened peace, bliss and eternal liberation (\"moksha\").\n\nJainism is similar to Buddhism in epistemically rejecting the Vedas and the Hindu metaphysical concept for Reality called Brahman. Jainism and Hinduism, however, both believe \"soul exists\" as a self-evident truth, and in their historic theology and practice have been more similar than with Buddhism. Jains and Hindus have frequently intermarried over their history, particularly in northern, central and western regions of India.\n\nJainism has contributed significantly to Indian art and architecture. Jain arts depict life legends of \"tirthankara\" or other important people, particularly with them in a seated or standing meditative posture. \"Yakshas\" and \"yakshinis\", attendant spirits who guard the \"tirthankara\", are usually shown with them. The earliest known Jain image is in the Patna museum. It is dated approximately to the 3rd century BCE. Bronze images of Pārśva can be seen in the Prince of Wales Museum, Mumbai, and in the Patna museum; these are dated to the 2nd century BCE.\n\"Ayagapata\" is a type of votive tablet used in Jainism for donation and worship in the early centuries. These tablets are decorated with objects and designs central to Jain worship such as the \"stupa\", \"dharmacakra\" and \"triratna\". They present simultaneous trends or image and symbol worship. Numerous such stone tablets were discovered during excavations at ancient Jain sites like Kankali Tila near Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, India. The practice of donating these tablets is documented from 1st century BCE to 3rd century CE.\n\n\"Samavasarana\", a preaching hall of \"tirthankaras\" with various beings concentrically placed, is an important theme of Jain art.\n\nThe Jain tower in Chittor, Rajasthan, is a good example of Jain architecture. Decorated manuscripts are preserved in Jain libraries, containing diagrams from Jain cosmology. Most of the paintings and illustrations depict historical events, known as \"Panch Kalyanaka\", from the life of the \"tirthankara\". Rishabha, the first \"tirthankara\", is usually depicted in either the lotus position or \"kayotsarga\", the standing position. He is distinguished from other \"tirthankara\" by the long locks of hair falling to his shoulders. Bull images also appear in his sculptures. In paintings, incidents from his life, like his marriage and Indra marking his forehead, are depicted. Other paintings show him presenting a pottery bowl to his followers; he is also seen painting a house, weaving, and being visited by his mother Marudevi. Each of the twenty-four \"tirthankara\" is associated with distinctive emblems, which are listed in such texts as \"Tiloyapannati\", \"Kahavaali\" and \"Pravacanasaarodhara\".\n\nA Jain temple, \"Derasar\" or \"Basadi\" is a place of worship for Jains. Jain temples are built with various architectural designs, but there are mainly two type of Jain temples:\n\nThere is always a main deity also known as \"moolnayak\" in every Jain temple placed inside a sanctum called \"\"Gambhara\"\" (Garbha Griha). A \"manastambha\" (\"column of honor\") is a pillar that is often constructed in front of Jain temples.\n\nThere are 26 caves, 200 stone beds, 60 inscriptions, and over 100 sculptures in and around Madurai. This is also the site where Jain ascetics wrote great epics and books on grammar in Tamil.\n\nAncient Jain monuments include the Udaigiri Hills near Bhelsa (Vidisha) in Madhya Pradesh, the Ellora in Maharashtra, the Palitana temples in Gujarat, and the Jain temples at Dilwara Temples near Mount Abu, Rajasthan. Chaumukha temple in Ranakpur is considered one of the most beautiful Jain temples and is famous for its detailed carvings. According to Jain texts, Shikharji is the place where twenty of the twenty-four Jain \"Tīrthaṅkaras\" along with many other monks attained \"moksha\" (died without being reborn, with their soul in \"Siddhashila\"). The Shikharji site in northeastern Jharkhand is therefore a revered pilgrimage site. The Palitana temples are the holiest shrine for the Śvētāmbara Murtipujaka sect. Along with Shikharji the two sites are considered the holiest of all pilgrimage sites by the Jain community.\n\nThe Jain complex, Khajuraho and Jain Narayana temple are part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Shravanabelagola, Saavira Kambada Basadi or \"1000 pillars\" and Brahma Jinalaya are important Jain centers in Karnataka.\n\nThe Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves dating back to the 2nd–1st century BCE are dedicated to Jainism. They are rich with carvings of Jain \"tirthanakars\" and deities with inscriptions including the \"Hathigumpha\" inscription (\"Elephant Cave\" inscription). Jain cave temples at Badami, Mangi-Tungi and the Ellora Caves are considered important.\n\nThe Sittanavasal Cave temple is regarded as one of the finest examples of Jain art. It is the oldest and most famous Jain centre in the region. It possesses both an early Jain cave shelter, and a medieval rock-cut temple with excellent fresco paintings comparable to Ajantha paintings; the steep hill contains an isolated but spacious cavern. Locally, this cavern is known as \"Eladipattam\", a name that is derived from the seven holes cut into the rock that serve as steps leading to the shelter. Within the cave there are seventeen stone beds aligned in rows; each of these has a raised portion that could have served as a pillow-loft. The largest stone bed has a distinct Tamil-Brahmi inscription assignable to the 2nd century BCE, and some inscriptions belonging to the 8th century BCE are also found on the nearby beds. The Sittannavasal cavern continued to be the Holy Sramana Abode until the 7th and 8th centuries. Inscriptions over the remaining stone beds name mendicants such as Tol kunrattu Kadavulan, Tirunilan, Tiruppuranan, Tittaicharanan, Sri Purrnacandran, Thiruchatthan, Ilangowthaman, Sri Ulagathithan, and Nityakaran Pattakali as monks.\nThe 8th century Kazhugumalai temple marks the revival of Jainism in South India.\n\nJain \"Tirtha\" (\"pilgrim\") sites are divided into the following categories:\n\nOutside contemporary India, Jain communities built temples in locations such as Nagarparkar, Sindh (Pakistan). However, according to a UNESCO tentative world heritage site application, Nagarparkar was not a \"major religious centre or a place of pilgrimage\" for Jainism, but it was once an important cultural landscape before \"the last remaining Jain community left the area in 1947 at Partition\".\n\nJain sculptures are mainly images depicting \"tīrthaṅkaras\". A sculpture could depict any of the twenty-four \"tīrthaṅkarass\" images. Parshvanatha, Rishabhanatha and Mahāvīra are among the more popular. These \"tīrthaṅkaras\" usually depicted in the lotus position or \"kayotsarga\". Sculptures of \"chaumukha\" (\"quadruple\") images are also popular in Jainism. Sculptures of Arihant, Bahubali, and protector deities like Ambika are also found. \"Tirthanakar\" idols look similar and are differentiated by the symbol belonging to each \"tirthanakar\" except Parshvanatha. Statues of Parshvanath have a snake crown on head. There are a few differences between the Digambara and the Śvētāmbara depictions of idols. Digambara images are naked without any beautification, whereas Śvētāmbara depictions are clothed and decorated with temporary ornaments.\n\nA monolithic, statue of Bahubali, referred to as \"Gommateshvara\", built in 981 CE by the Ganga minister and commander Chavundaraya, is situated on a hilltop in Shravanabelagola in the Hassan district of Karnataka state. This statue was voted first in the SMS poll Seven Wonders of India conducted by \"The Times of India\". The Statue of Ahiṃsā (depicting Rishabhanatha) was erected in the Nashik district in 2015; it is tall. Idols made from \"Ashtadhatu\" (literally \"eight metals\"), Akota Bronze, brass, gold, silver, stone monoliths, rock cut, and precious stones are popular in Jainism.\n\nA large number of \"ayagapata\", votive tablets for offerings and the worship of \"tīrthankara\", were excavated from Kankali Tila, Mathura. These sculptures date from the 2nd century BCE to the 12th century CE.\n\nJain icons and arts incorporate symbols such as swastika, om, and the \"Ashtamangala\".\n\nThe swastika is an important Jain symbol. Its four arms symbolise the four realms of existence in which rebirth occurs according to Jainism: humans, heavenly beings, hellish beings and non-humans (plants and animals). This is conceptually similar to the six realms of rebirth represented by \"bhavachakra\" in Buddhism. It is usually shown with three dots on the top, which represent the three jewels mentioned in ancient texts such as \"Tattvartha sūtra\" and \"Uttaradhyayana sūtra\": correct faith, correct understanding and correct conduct. These jewels are the means believed in Jainism to lead one to the state of spiritual perfection, a state that is symbolically represented by a crescent and one dot on top representing the liberated soul.\n\nThe hand with a wheel on the palm symbolizes \"ahimsā\" in Jainism with \"ahiṃsā\" written in the middle. The wheel represents the \"dharmachakra\" (\"Wheel of the Dharma\"), which stands for the resolve to halt the \"saṃsāra\" (\"wandering\") through the relentless pursuit of \"ahimsā\" (\"compassion\").\n\nIn Jainism, \"Om\" is considered a condensed form of reference to the \"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\", by their initials \"A+A+A+U+M\" (\"\"). According to the \"Dravyasamgraha\" by Acharya Nemicandra, \"AAAUM\" (or just \"Om\") is a one syllable short form of the initials of the five parameshthis: \"\"Arihant\", \"Ashiri\", \"Acharya\", \"Upajjhaya\", \"Muni\"\". The \"Om\" symbol is also used in ancient Jain scriptures to represent the five lines of the \"Ṇamōkāra\" Mantra.\n\nIn 1974, on the 2500th anniversary of the nirvana of Mahāvīra, the Jain community chose one image as an emblem to be the main identifying symbol for Jainism. The overall shape depicts the three \"loka\" (\"realms of rebirth\") of Jain cosmology i.e., heaven, human world and hell. The semi-circular topmost portion symbolizes \"Siddhashila\", which is a zone beyond the three realms. The Jain swastika is present in the top portion, and the symbol of \"Ahiṃsā\" in the lower portion. At the bottom of the emblem is the Jain mantra, \"Parasparopagraho Jīvānām\". According to Vilas Sangave, the mantra means \"all life is bound together by mutual support and interdependence\". According to Anne Vallely, this mantra is from sūtra 5.21 of Umaswati's \"Tattvarthasūtra\", and it means \"souls render service to one another\".\n\nThe five colours of the Jain flag represent the \"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\" and the five vows, small as well as great:\n\nThe \"Ashtamangala\" are a set of eight auspicious symbols, which are different in the Digambara and Śvētāmbar traditions.\n\nIn the Digambara tradition, the eight auspicious symbols are Chatra, \"Dhvaja\", \"Kalasha\", Chaamara, Mirror, Chair, Hand fan and Vessel. In the Śvētāmbar tradition, these are Swastika, \"Srivatsa\", \"Nandavarta\", \"Vardhmanaka\" (\"food vessel\"), \"Bhadrasana\" (\"seat\"), \"Kalasha\" (\"pot\"), \"Darpan\" (\"mirror\") and pair of fish.\n\nThe origins of Jainism are obscure. The Jains claim their religion to be eternal, and consider Rishabhanatha to be the founder in the present time-cycle, the first of 24 Jain \"tirthankaras\" in Jain belief, and someone who lived for 8,400,000 purva years. According to one hypothesis, such as one by Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the first vice president of India, Jainism was in existence before the Vedas were composed. According to historians, the first 22 of the 24 \"tirthankaras\" were mythical figures. These figures were supposed to have lived more than 85,000 years ago. They were five to hundred times taller than average human beings and lived for thousands of years. The 23rd \"tirthankara\", Parshvanatha, is generally accepted to be based on an ancient historic human being of uncertain dates, possibly 8th–7th century BCE.\n\nSome confessional Jain scholars such as Parikh have argued that some images such as those of the bull in Indus Valley Civilization seal may be related to Jainism, but such claims are highly speculative and a subjective interpretation. This theory has not been accepted by most scholars because very little is known about the Indus Valley iconography and script. Jainism, like Buddhism, is one of the \"Sramana\" traditions of ancient India, those that rejected the Vedas and developed their own scriptures.\n\nThere is inscriptional evidence for the presence of Jain monks in south India by the second or first centuries BC, and archaeological evidence of Jain monks in Saurashtra in Gujarat by the second century CE. Statues of Jain \"tirthankara\" have been found dating back to second century BC.\n\nInformation regarding the political history of Jainism is uncertain and fragmentary. Jains consider the king Bimbisara (c. 558–491 BCE), Ajatashatru (c. 492–460 BCE), and Udayin (c. 460-440 BCE) of the Haryanka dynasty as a patron of Jainism.\n\nJain tradition states that Chandragupta Maurya (322–298 BCE), the founder of the Mauryan Empire and grandfather of Ashoka, became a monk and disciple of Jain ascetic Bhadrabahu during later part of his life. According to historians, Chandragupta's story appears in various versions in Buddhist, Jain, and Hindu texts. Broadly, Chandragupta was born into a humble family, abandoned, raised as a son by another family, then with the training and counsel of Chanakya of \"Arthashastra\" fame ultimately built one of the largest empires in ancient India. According to Jain history, late in his life, Chandragupta renounced the empire he built and handed over his power to his son, became a Jaina monk, and headed to meditate and pursue spirituality in the Deccan region, under the Jaina teacher Bhadrabahu at Shravanabelagola. There state Jain texts, he died by fasting, a Jaina ascetic method of ending one's life by choice (\"Sallenkana vrata\"). The 3rd century BCE emperor Ashoka, in his pillar edicts, mentions several ancient Indian religious groups including the \"Niganthas\" (Jaina).\n\nAccording to another Jain legend, King Salivahana of the late 1st century CE was a patron of Jainism, as were many others in the early centuries of the 1st millennium CE. But von Glasenapp states that the historicity of these stories is difficult to establish. Archeological evidence suggests that Mathura was an important Jain centre between the 2nd century BCE and the 5th century CE. Inscriptions from the 1st and 2nd century CE show that the schism between Digambara and Śvētāmbara had already taken place.\n\nKing Harshavardhana of the 7th century grew up in Shaivism, following his family, but he championed Jainism, Buddhism and all traditions of Hinduism. King Ama of the 8th century converted to Jainism, and the Jaina pilgrimage tradition was well established in his era. Mularaja, the founder of Chalukya dynasty, constructed a Jain temple, even though he was not a Jain.\n\nIn the second half of the 1st century CE, Hindu kings sponsored and helped build major Jaina cave temples. For example, the Hindu Rashtrakuta dynasty started the early group of Jain temples, and the Yadava dynasty built many of the middle and later Jain group of temples at the Ellora Caves between 700 and 1000 CE.\n\nMahāvīra and Buddha are generally accepted as contemporaries (circa 5th century BCE). The interaction between Jainism and Buddhism began with the Buddha. Buddhist texts refer to Mahāvīra as \"Nigantha Nataputta\".\n\nBeyond the times of the Mahāvīra and the Buddha, the two ascetic \"sramana\" (\"seeker\") religions competed for followers as well as the merchant trade networks that sustained them. Their mutual interaction, along with those of Hindu traditions, have been significant. In some cases the titles of the Buddhist and Jaina texts are the same or similar but present different doctrines.\n\nRoyal patronage has been a key factor in the growth as well as the decline of Jainism. The Pallava King Mahendravarman I (600630 CE) converted from Jainism to Shaivism under the influence of Appar. His work \"Mattavilasa Prahasana\" ridicules certain Shaiva sects and the Buddhists and also expresses contempt towards Jain ascetics. Sambandar converted the contemporary Pandya king to Shaivism. During the 11th century, Basava, a minister to the Jain Kalachuri king Bijjala, succeeded in converting numerous Jains to the Lingayat Shaivite sect. The Lingayats destroyed various temples belonging to Jains and adapted them to their use. The Hoysala King Vishnuvardhana (c.11081152 CE) became a follower of the Vaishnava sect under the influence of Ramanuja, after which Vaishnavism grew rapidly in what is now Karnataka.\nJainism and Hinduism influenced each other. Jain texts declare some of the Hindu gods as blood relatives of legendary \"tirthankara\". Neminatha, the 22nd \"tirthankara\" for example is presented as a cousin of Krishna in Jain Puranas and other texts. However, Jain scholars such as Haribhadra also wrote satires about Hindu gods, mocking them with novel outrageous stories where the gods misbehave and act unethically. The Hindu gods are presented by some Jain writers as persecuting, tempting, afraid of, or serving a legendary Jina before he gains omniscience. In other stories, one or more Jinas easily defeat the Hindu deities such as Vishnu, or Rama and Sita who come to pay respect to a Jina at a major Jain pilgrimage site such as Mount Satrunjaya.\n\nThe Jain and Hindu communities have often been very close and mutually accepting. Some Hindu temples have included a Jain \"Tirthankara\" within its premises in a place of honour. Similarly numerous temple complexes feature both Hindu and Jain monuments, with Badami cave temples and Khajuraho among some of the most well known.\nJainism faced persecution during and after the Muslim conquests on the Indian subcontinent. Muslims rulers, such as Mahmud Ghazni (1001), Mohammad Ghori (1175) and Ala-ud-din Muhammed Shah Khalji (1298) further oppressed the Jain community. They vandalised idols and destroyed temples or converted them into mosques. They also burned Jain books and killed Jains. There were significant exceptions, such as Emperor Akbar (15421605) whose legendary religious tolerance, out of respect for Jains, ordered the release of caged birds and banned the killing of animals on the Jain festival of Paryusan. After Akbar, Jains faced an intense period of Muslim persecution in the 17th century.\n\nThe Jain community were the traditional bankers and financiers, and this significantly impacted the Muslim rulers. However, they rarely were a part of the political power during the Islamic rule period of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nColonial era reports and Christian missions variously viewed Jainism as either a sect of Hinduism or Buddhism, or as a distinct religion. According to Padmanath Jaini, Christian missionaries expressed extreme frustration at Jain people without pagan creator gods refusing to convert to Christianity, while colonial era Jain scholars such as Champat Rai Jain defended Jainism against criticism and misrepresentation by Christian activists. Missionaries of Christianity and Islam considered Jain traditions as idolatrous and a false religion, characterizing Jain temples and icons, such of those of Jina, as false idols and superstitious practices. These criticisms, states John Cort, were flawed and also ignored similar practices within sects of Christianity.\n\nThe British colonial government in India, as well as Indian princely states, passed laws that made monks roaming naked in streets a crime, one that led to arrest. This law particularly impacted the Digambara monks. The Akhil Bharatiya Jaina Samaj opposed this law, and argued that it interfered with the religious rights of Jains. Acharya Shantisagar entered Bombay (now Mumbai) in 1927, but was forced to cover his body. He then led an India-wide tour as the naked monk with his followers, to various Digambara sacred sites, and was welcomed by kings of the Maharashtra provinces. Shantisagar fasted to oppose the restrictions imposed on Digambara monks by the British Raj and prompted their discontinuance. The colonial era laws that banned naked monks remained effective through World War II, but they were abolished by independent India after it gained independence.\n\nFollowers of the path practised by the Jinas are known as Jains. The majority of Jains currently reside in India. With four to five million followers worldwide, Jainism is relatively small compared to major world religions. Jains form 0.37% of India's population. Most of them are concentrated in the states of Maharashtra (1.4 million in 2011, 31.46% of Indian Jains), Rajasthan (13.97%), Gujarat (13.02%) and Madhya Pradesh (12.74%). Karnataka (9.89%), Uttar Pradesh (4.79%), Delhi (3.73%) and Tamil Nadu (2.01%) also have significant Jain populations. Outside India, Jain communities can be found in Europe, the United States, Canada, Australia and Kenya.\n\nAccording to the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS-4) conducted in 2015-16, Jains form the wealthiest community in India. Jains have the highest literacy rate (87%) in India, in the 7-years to oldest age group, according to its 2011 census. The Jaina community also has the highest number of college graduates. Excluding the retired senior citizens, Jain literacy rate in India exceeded 97%. The female to male child sex ratio in the 0-6 year age was second lowest for Jains (870 girls per 1,000 boys), higher than Sikhs in India. Further, Jain males have the highest work participation rates, while Jain females have the lowest work participation rates in India.\n\nMajor Jain communities:\n\n\nJainism has been praised for some of its practices and beliefs.\nMahatma Gandhi, who was greatly influenced by Jainism, said:\n\n"}
{"id": "11668427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11668427", "title": "Karakia", "text": "Karakia\n\nKarakia are Māori incantations and prayers, used to invoke spiritual guidance and protection.\n\n\"Karakia\" are generally used to increase the spiritual goodwill of a gathering, so as to increase the likelihood of a favourable outcome. They are also considered a formal greeting when beginning a ceremony. According to legend, there was a curse on the Waiapu River which was lifted when George Gage (Hori Keeti) performed \"karakia\". In the Māori religion, \"karakia\" are used to ritually cleanse the homes of the deceased after a burial. \n\nThe missionary Richard Taylor gives a 19th-century view of the traditional role and scope of \"karakia\":\nThe word \"karakia\", which we use for prayer, formerly meant a spell, charm, or incantation [...] [Maori] have spells suited for all circumstances - to conquer enemies, catch fish, trap rats, and snare birds, to make their kumara grow, and even to bind the obstinate will of woman; to find anything lost; to discover a stray dog; a concealed enemy; in fact, for all their wants. These karakias are extremely numerous [...]\nWith the nineteenth-century introduction of Christianity to New Zealand, Māori adopted (or wrote new) karakia to acknowledge the new faith. Modern karakia tend to contain a blend of Christian and traditional influence, and their poetic language may make literal translations into English not always possible.\n\nIn modern Māori society, performances of \"karakia\" frequently open important meetings and ceremonies, both within a Māori context (such as tribal hui, tangi, or the inauguration of new marae), and in a wider New Zealand setting in which both Māori and Pākehā participate (such as the beginning of public meetings or at the departure of official delegations for overseas).\n\n"}
{"id": "22477693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22477693", "title": "Libertas ecclesiae", "text": "Libertas ecclesiae\n\nLibertas ecclesiae (\"freedom of the Church\" in Latin) is the notion of freedom of ecclesiastical authority from secular or the temporal power, which guided the Reform movement which began in the 11th century.\n\nAfter the decentralization of the post-Carolingian period, this became the slogan of the Church in light of disapproval over lay warlords installing themselves as abbots and other high-profile churchmen. Unfit to perform theological functions, much less to defend the interests of the Church, these warlords viewed Church property as an extension of their own landholdings.\n\nWhat resulted was the plunder of movable wealth (of which the monasteries had become the keepers during the period of Viking invasion) and the parcelling out of land and office as the temporal powers saw fit. This sorry state of the Church prompted enthusiasm for 'freeing' it from the direct control of these milites; Gregory VII helped frame this goal through the specifics of his reform program.\n\nIn addition to calling for spiritually pure figures at the helm of the Church, Gregory VII addressed the practical problems of pluralism (holding more than one church office) and poorly educated clerics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8093277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8093277", "title": "List of Neopagan movements", "text": "List of Neopagan movements\n\nNeopaganism (also modern paganism or contemporary paganism) encompasses a wide range of religious groups and individuals. These may include old occult groups, those that follow a New Age approach, those that try to reconstruct old ethnic religions, and followers of the pagan religion of Wicca. For organizations, the founding year is given in brackets.\n\nPre-World War II neopagan or proto-neopagan groups, growing out of occultism and/or Romanticism (Mediterranean revival, Viking revival, Celtic revival, etc.).\n\nWicca originated in 1940s Britain and became the mainstream of Neopaganism in the United States in the 1970s. There are two core traditions of Wicca which originated in Britain, Gardnerian and Alexandrian, which are sometimes referred to as British Traditional Wicca. From these two arose several other variant traditions. Wicca has also inspired a great number of other witchcraft traditions in Britain, Europe and the United States, most of which base their beliefs and practices on Wicca. Many movements are influenced by the Movement of the Goddess, and New Age and feminist worldviews.\n\n\n\n\n\nHeathenism (also Heathenry, or Greater Heathenry), is a blanket term for the whole Germanic Neopagan movement. Various currents and denominations have arisen over the years within it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17784363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17784363", "title": "List of occult writers", "text": "List of occult writers\n\nThis is a list of notable occult writers.\n"}
{"id": "7959344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7959344", "title": "List of religious slurs", "text": "List of religious slurs\n\nThe following is a list of religious slurs in the English language that are, or have been, used as insinuations or allegations about adherents of a given religion or to refer to them in a derogatory (critical or disrespectful), pejorative (disapproving or contemptuous), or insulting manner.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nArabs and Muslims, especially Sunni Muslims, use slurs against Persians and Shiites by calling them \"majoos\" or \"majus\" (Arabic: مجوس) which means \"fire worshippers\", Zoroastrians or Magi.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49256077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49256077", "title": "Marrakesh Declaration", "text": "Marrakesh Declaration\n\nThe Marrakesh Declaration is a statement made in January 2016 by \"more than 250 Muslim religious leaders, heads of state, and scholars\", which champions \"defending the rights of religious minorities in predominantly Muslim countries.\" The declaration was made in Morocco and \"representatives of persecuted religious communities — including Chaldean Catholics from Iraq\" were included in the conference. The conference, in which the Marrakesh Declaration was signed, was called in response to the persecution of religious minorities, such as Christians and Yazidis, by ISIS. The Marrakesh Declaration builds on historical Islamic sources such as the Charter of Medina. King Mohammed VI of Morocco stated \"We in the kingdom of Morocco will not tolerate the violation of the rights of religious minorities in the name of Islam...I am enabling Christians and Jews to practice their faith and not just as minorities. They even serve in the government.\"\n\nThe declaration has been widely welcomed. Some commentators called for consistent legal and practical follow through of the sentiments expressed including in the country where the declaration was forged, which does not recognise its own indigenous Christians and persecutes and imprisons them, or in the birthplace of Islam, where there are reportedly many Saudi Christians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "340618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340618", "title": "Megachurch", "text": "Megachurch\n\nA megachurch is defined by the Hartford Institute as any Protestant Christian church having 2,000 or more people in average weekend attendance. The Oxford English Dictionary defines the term, first documented in 1984, as a church with an unusually large membership, especially one preaching a conservative or evangelical form of Christianity and also offering a variety of educational and social activities.\n\nThe concept originated in the mid 19th century, continued into the mid 20th century as a low-key phenomenon, and expanded rapidly through the 1980s and 1990s; it is widely seen across the US in the early 21st century. \n\nThe origins of the megachurch movement, with a large number of local congregants who return on a weekly basis can be traced to the 1800s. There were large churches earlier in history, but they were considerably rarer. Examples include Charles Spurgeon's Baptist Metropolitan Tabernacle in London which attracted 5,000 weekly for years in the late 19th century, and religious broadcaster Aimee Semple McPherson's Angelus Temple in Los Angeles, of similar size.\n\nIn 2010, the Hartford Institute's database listed more than 1,300 such Protestant churches in the United States; according to that data, approximately 50 churches on the list had average attendance exceeding 10,000, with the highest recorded at 47,000 in average attendance. On one weekend in November 2015, around one in ten Protestant churchgoers in the US, or about 5 million people, attended service in a megachurch. 3,000 individual Catholic parishes have 2,000 or more attendants for an average Sunday Mass, but they are not called megachurches as that is a specifically Protestant term.Globally, these large congregations are a significant development in Protestant Christianity. In the United States, the phenomenon has more than quadrupled in the past two decades. It has since spread worldwide. In 2007, five of the ten largest Protestant churches were in South Korea. The largest megachurch in the United States is Lakewood Church in Houston, Texas with more than 40,000 members every weekend and the current largest megachurch in the world is South Korea's Yoido Full Gospel Church, an Assemblies of God church, with more than 830,000 members as of 2007.\nCivil rights activist and Baptist minister Al Sharpton has claimed that megachurches focus on personal morality issues while ignoring social justice issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "840063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840063", "title": "Minority religion", "text": "Minority religion\n\nA minority religion is a religion held by a minority of the population of a country, state, or region. Minority religions may be subject to stigma or discrimination. An example of a stigma is using the term cult with its extremely negative connotations for certain new religious movements. People who belong to a minority religion may be subject to discrimination and prejudice, especially when the religious differences correlate with ethnic differences.\n\nLaws are made in some countries to protect the rights of religious minorities, such as protecting the minorities' culture and to promote harmony with the majority.\n\n"}
{"id": "4698584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4698584", "title": "Neetham", "text": "Neetham\n\nNeetham (Tamil:) are the primary virtues to be followed according to the Akilam the holy text of Ayyavazhi. They are found in Akilam one, which is the first section of the Akilattirattu Ammanai, and in the middle of the meta-narrative events of the . This shows that the society, its people, and the ruling king once lived in absolute harmony with nature, placing the power of God in all their works, deeds, and activities during early ages.\n\nThe Akilam points this out as an example, and describes how the people should live in the world. It also forms a part of Ayyavazhi ethics. The Neethams are split into three. They are,\n\n\nThe Manu Neetham describes how a person should act in society. It also describes the correct moral character of the people, and their way of life in harmony with nature (particularly women) in the early ages.\n\nFollowers believe that all the events and actions that happen in their lives are activated by God. Therefore, they prefer not to seek any individual supremacy for any of their activities or achievements. All faithful followers believe that everyone is equal, in spite of the presence of different castes.\n\nIn addition, they do not find anyone inferior or superior to others with respect to the jobs they do. They neither do any menial jobs nor make others do so. In turn, they live with a mutual understanding of others not unlike the innocence of children.\n\n\nThus the people of the society would live: always striving to be role models for others. This ethical code is considered by followers to have been given by Ayyavazhi scriptures to mankind.\n\nThis Raja Neetham or Arasa Neetham says, how an individual should be to the society or nation, and in turn how the nation should be to a common man. This was derived from the meta-narrative events, one practiced in the society.\n\nThe king ruled the country with great care, by giving more importance to individual needs. He respect each and every individual with equal status. The king consider the comfort of the subjects of the nation as the comfort of himself. In all the 1008 Pathis (The place where God is) the poojas were conducted rightly and in timely manner. The temples, the watermeans such as ponds, wells were supervised and were repaired frequently. Anna Dharmam, the charity on food is conducted frequently at choultries. The people of the nation always respect religious persons and pilgrims, and help them by all possible means, and consider that serving them (religious persons) is like serving God.\n\nThe king collects one-sixth of the means of people as tax. If any one says that they will not be able to give one-sixth of their means, the king don't use to compel them. If any one pays tax without any pending for about twelve years the King use to discount their tax for two years. The judgement from the king for the judicial cases of people will be accurate. He gives more importance for his people than for himself.\n\nThis story tells about a king who follows the Raja Neetham rightly and so his accuracy in judgement.\n\nOnce a hunter choose a bird as his target and points his arrow towards it. The bird notes this and flies away and the hunter follows the bird. The bird flew and fell in front of the Chozha king and asked him to rescue from the hunter. Following this the hunter came in front of the king and demanded the bird. He also says, \"whole of my today's time is wasted behind this bird. I and my family has to fulfill our hunger by this bird.\" On the other hand, the bird demanded the king to save it from the hunter.\n\nThe king feels that both of them are right from their own view point and sensed both the fulfillment of the hunger of hunter and saving the life of the bird is his duty as a king. So taking care the two subjects, the king cut an equal quantity of flesh to the bird from his limb and gave it to the hunter. So he saved the life of the bird and on the other hand saved the hunter's family from being hungry. As king, he treated both of his subjects equally and also fulfilled both of their needs.\n\nThis Deiva Neetham tells about the thought of people about the Almighty and about their religious harmony during that (old) age, and tells the way by which one should be get divinized. The most important point is, this part says that when the other two Neethams are correctly followed the Deiva Neetham will be automatically fall in the right path. This concept was reveals from the mythical narration.\n\nThe reign of the king (above in Raja Neetham) was identified as a good rule by the Devas. Narayana, Brahma, Lekhsmi and all devas appreciated this rule. They went to kayilai to meet Siva to tell about this.\n\nThey met Siva in Kayilai and told that the King chozha is ruling his country genuinely. They also told Siva about the judgement of the king in the matter of the Hunter and the Bird. Also they brought to his attention, other merits of the reign of the king. They also demanded that, since the king is so genuine, talented and accurate in following the principles, he should order the devas to do the duties to his nation correctly. Hearing this Siva ordered the Mayon to order the devas to do all duties timidly. As per this Mayon ordered,\n\n\nAs per the order of Siva all activities were done by devas. Also they made all animals to live in harmony with each other and with the people. They also made the crops of his nation to give good yield for the people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5379111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5379111", "title": "Nirankar", "text": "Nirankar\n\nNirankar ( ) is one of the many attributes associated to God in Sikh philosophy and means \"The Formless One\". The word has its roots in \"nirākārā\" and is a compound of two words \"Nir\" meaning Without and Akar (or Akaar), Shape or Form; hence, The Formless. \n\nIt is used as a name for The Almighty in Guru Granth Sahib.\n\n\"The actual meaning of \"Nirankar\" is Waheguru, Allah, God, and Ishbar. It describes that God is formless and omnipresent. We all are made by Nirankar. Only the name of \"Religions\" are different. But the supreme power is same in actual. We all are one and belongs to one Lord master(Nirankar).\"\n"}
{"id": "8625424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8625424", "title": "Nudity in religion", "text": "Nudity in religion\n\nThis article on nudity in religion deals with the differing attitudes to nudity and modesty among world religions.\n\nHesiod the writer of the poem \"Theogony\", which describes the origins and genealogies of the Greek gods in Ancient Greek religion, suggested that farmers should \"Sow naked, and plough naked, and harvest naked, if you wish to bring in all Demeter's fruits in due season.\" Demeter is the goddess of the harvest and agriculture, who presided over grains and the fertility of the earth.\n\nThe Abrahamic religions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam all recount the legend of the Garden of Eden, found in the Hebrew Bible, in which Adam and Eve are unaware of their nakedness until they eat the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil. After this, they feel ashamed and try to cover themselves with fig leaves. Judaism does not share the Christian association of nakedness with original sin, an aspect integral to the doctrine of redemption and salvation. In Islam the garden is in Paradise, not on Earth. This is to show that women and men should be covered in clothing, for nudity has the stigma of shame attached to it. Each of these religions has its own unique understanding of what is meant to be taught with the recounting of the story of Adam and Eve.\n\nIn Judaism, nudity is an aspect of body modesty which is regarded as very important in most social and familial situations. Attitudes to modesty vary between the different movements within Judaism as well as between communities within each movement. In more strict (orthodox) communities, modesty is an aspect of Tzniut which generally has detailed rules of what is appropriate behaviour. Conservative and Reform Judaism generally promote modesty values but do not regard the strict Tzniut rules as binding, with each person being permitted (at least in principle) to set their own standards. With the exception of the Haredi community, Jewish communities generally tend to dress according to the standards of the society in which they find themselves.\n\nA person who enters a ritual bath (a \"mikveh\") does so without clothing, and with no jewelry or even bandages.\n\nCare needs to be taken when reading the Bible, where some references to nakedness serve as a euphemism for intimate sexual behaviour. For example, in the story of Noah we see the hesitancy of two of Noah's sons when they have to cover their father's nakedness, averting their eyes, after Noah's youngest son \"saw his father's nakedness and told his two brothers outside\" what he had done to his father. Nakedness may also be a metaphor for empty-handedness, specifically in situations where a sacrifice or offering to God is expected.\n\nThe early Christian Church reflected the contemporary attitudes of Judaism towards nudity. The Old Testament is not positive towards nudity. In the Old Testament, Isaiah in walk nude as a sign of shame against Egypt. \n\nThe first recorded liturgy of baptism, written down by Saint Hippolytus of Rome in his \"Apostolic Tradition\", required men, women and children to remove all clothing, including all foreign objects such as jewellery and hair fastenings. , however argues that complete nudity for baptism candidates (especially women) would not be the norm. He notes that at certain times and in certain places candidates may have been totally naked at the point of baptism, but the Jewish taboo of female nakedness would have mitigated widespread practice of naked baptism.\n\nLater Christian attitudes to nudity became more restrictive, and baptisms were segregated by sex and then later were usually performed with clothed participants. Some of the Eastern Orthodox churches today maintain the early church's liturgical use of baptismal nudity, particularly for infants but also for adults.\n\nSeveral saints, such as a number of the Desert Fathers as well as Basil Fool for Christ, practiced nudity as a form of ascetic poverty.\n\nEarly Christian art included depictions of nudity in baptism. When artistic endeavours revived following the Renaissance, the Catholic Church was a major sponsor of art bearing a religious theme, many of which included subjects in various states of dress and including full nudity. Painters sponsored by the Church included Raphael, Caravaggio and Michelangelo, but there were many others. Many of these paintings and statues were and continue to be displayed in churches, some of which were painted as murals, the most famous of which are at the Sistine Chapel painted by Michelangelo.\n\n, in discussing logion 37 of the Gospel of Thomas, notes that early Christian art depicts, as one would expect, Adam and Eve in Paradise naked. The only other Old Testament figures who are depicted nude are Jonah emerging from the mouth of the Great Fish, Daniel emerging from the Lion's Den, and the resurrected in Ezekiel's vision of the dry bones: these Old Testament scenes containing nude figures are precisely those which were held to be types of the resurrection. Among the New Testament illustrations, apart from baptismal scenes, there are nudes only in one representation of the raising of Lazarus and one representation of the Miracle at Cana.\n\nIn 1981, Pope John Paul II expressed the Catholic Church's attitude to the exposure of the human body in \"Love and Responsibility\": \"The human body can remain nude and uncovered and preserve intact its splendour and its beauty... Nakedness as such is not to be equated with physical shamelessness... Immodesty is present only when nakedness plays a negative role with regard to the value of the person... The human body is not in itself shameful... Shamelessness (just like shame and modesty) is a function of the interior of a person.\"\n\nSects have arisen within Christianity from time to time that have viewed nudity in a more positive light. For example, to the Adamites and the Freedomites social nudity was an integral part of their ritual.\n\nToday, Christian naturists maintain that social nudity is a normal part of Christianity and is acceptable. argues that the significance of the human need for clothing by far exceeds its theological meaning.\n\nIn Islam the area of the body not meant to be exposed in public is called the \"awrah\", and while referred to in the Qur'an, is addressed in more detail in hadith. In the Sunni tradition, the male \"awrah\" is from the navel to knees. Other denominations have differing interpretations. For women, there are different classifications of \"awrah\". In public, many Muslim women wear the hijab and long dresses which covers most of their head and body, with only specific body parts such as hands and face exposed. But in front of direct family (parents, children, siblings), the \"awrah\" is relaxed further, allowing them to be uncovered, except between the chest and the thighs. Sharia law in some Islamic countries requires women to observe purdah, covering their entire bodies, including the face (see niqab and burqa), However, the degrees of covering vary according to local custom and/or interpretation of Sharia law.\n\n\n\nIn ancient Indian cultures, there was a tradition of extreme asceticism (obviously minoritarian) that included full nudity. This tradition continued from the gymnosophists (philosophers in antiquity) to certain holy men (who may however cover themselves with ashes) in present-day Hindu devotion and in Jainism.\n\nThe philosophical basis of nudity arises out of the concept of ‘Purushartha’ (four ends of human life). ‘Purushartha’ (Puruṣārtha) are ‘Kama’ (enjoyment), ‘Artha’ (wealth), ‘Dharma’ (virtue) and ‘Moksha’ (liberation). It is ‘Purushartha’ which impels a human being towards nudity or any of its related aspect(s) either for spiritual aim or for the aim of enjoyment. Practice of ‘Dharma’ (virtue) brings good result(s) and non-practice of ‘Dharma’ leads to negative result(s).\nIn the spiritual aspect of Hinduism nudity symbolizes renunciation ('tyaga' in Hindi) of the highest type. A nude person or deity (for example Kali is a nude deity) denotes one who is devoid of Maya or attachment to the body and one who is an embodiment of infinity. \nTrailanga Swami, the famous nude saint of India, had given an explanation for nudity in religion in the following words, “Lahiri Mahasaya is like a divine kitten, remaining wherever the Cosmic Mother has placed him. While dutifully playing the part of a worldly man, he has received that perfect Self-realization which I have sought by renouncing everything – even my loincloth!”\n\nIn comparison in the material aspect nudity is considered an art. This view is supported by Sri Aurobindo in his book \"The Renaissance in India\". He says about Hinduism in the book – “Its spiritual extremism could not prevent it from fathoming through a long era the life of the senses and its enjoyments, and there too it sought the utmost richness of sensuous detail and the depths and intensities of sensual experience. Yet it is notable that this pursuit of the most opposite extremes never resulted in disorder…”\nExtreme hedonists and materialists like the Charvakas are very candid with regard to pursuing of sensual pleasures. They say, “Marthakamaveva purusharthau” (Riches and pleasure is the summum bonum of life). ).There is another sloka in support of their view – “Anganalingananadijanyam sukhameva purusatha” (The sensual pleasure arising from the embrace of a woman and other objects is the highest good or end) ).\nFor non-hedonists pursuing kama (sensual pleasures) accompanied with dharma (virtue) can be the highest ideal or goal in life. There is nothing wrong in it. ).\n\nSome of the famous nude male and female yogi (male and female saints of India) of Hinduism include Lalla Yogishwari (Lalleshwari) , Trailanga Swami, Harihar Baba, Tota Puri. Also in the biography of saint Gorakhnath we have reference to nude male and female yogis who had visited the famous Amarnath Temple during medieval period of India. \n\nAmong the Hindu religious sects, only the sadhus (monks) of the Nāga sect can be seen nude. They usually wear a loin-cloth around their waist, but not always; and usually remain in their Akhara or deep forest or isolation and come out in public only once every four years during Kumbh Mela. They have a very long history and are warrior monks, who usually also carry a \"talwar\" (sword), \"trishul\" (trident), \"bhala\" (javelin) or such weapons, and in medieval times have fought many wars to protect Hindu temples and shrines.\n\nIn the \"Digambara\" sect of Jainism, monks and nuns are \"sky-clad\" and the members of this sect also keep their holy statues naked. However, the \"Shwetambar\" sect is \"white-clad\" and their holy statues wear a loin cloth.\n\nIn many modern neopagan religious movements, such as Wicca, social and ritual nudity is (relatively) commonplace. In Wicca, the term \"skyclad\" refers to ritual nudity instead of social nudity.\n\nIn Raëlism, nudity is not problematic. Raëlists in North America have formed GoTopless.org, which organizes demonstrations in support of topfreedom on the basis of the legal and public attitudes to the gender inequality. GoTopless sponsors an annual \"Go Topless Day\" protest (also known as \"National GoTopless Day\", \"International Go-Topless Day\", etc.) in advocacy for women's right to go topless on gender equality grounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47888989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47888989", "title": "OTSEM", "text": "OTSEM\n\nOTSEM (\"Old Testament Studies: Epistemologies and Methods\") is a research network of several Northern European universities. Originally Nordic-German in nature, it now includes British universities as well, which gives it a Nordic-German-Anglo profile. The organization focuses on research into the Hebrew Bible and promotes the development of young scholars in particular, especially through annual seminars and special lectures. Though encompassing theological faculties and using the term Old Testament, OTSEM is non-confessional, with members from Christian (both Protestant and Catholic), Jewish, Muslim, and secular backgrounds.\n\nCurrently, OTSEM consists of sixteen institutions from eight different countries:\n\n\nThe history of OTSEM divides into three distinct periods: Proto-OTSEM, OTSEM I, and OTSEM II (the present iteration).\n\nOTSEM's antecedents reach back to the 1970s. At that time, Helsinki and Göttingen had a student and professor exchange between their theological faculties. Beginning in the 1990s, bi- and trilateral doctoral seminars took place among the various institutions that would later become members of OTSEM.\n\n\nIn addition to arranging doctoral seminars, future members also organised professorial exchanges.\n\n\nFrom 2004 through 2008, the Nordic Council (\"NordForsk\") co-funded the research network. In this period, OTSEM saw formalization and expansion. This expansion included an increase in not only the number of members and member institutions but also meetings and individual exchanges. In particular, the now formal organization commenced its annual conferences (Oslo in 2004, Göttingen in 2005, Aarhus in 2006, Helsinki in 2008, and Lund in 2008). With the end of funding from the Nordic Council came the end of OTSEM I and start of OTSEM II.\n\nSince 2009, OTSEM has been financed solely by its associated institutions. Nevertheless, the research network has continued its annual conference and individual exchanges.\n\nOTSEM members with a high international profile have included the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33853725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33853725", "title": "Orthodoxy in Azerbaijan", "text": "Orthodoxy in Azerbaijan\n\nOrthodoxy in Azerbaijan is the second largest religious group in the Republic of Azerbaijan (after Islam). According to statistics, the Orthodox Byzantine tradition in Azerbaijan is 2.3% (209.7 thousand people). The territory of Azerbaijan is in the jurisdiction of the Baku-Azerbaijan Diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nSerious changes in the Albanian church occurred under the Arab rule, when the Catholicos Nerses I Bakur (688-704) attempted to convert to Chalcedonism, thus recognizing the spiritual authority of Constantinople. He was deposed by the Grand Duke of Albania Shero and other feudal lords who remained faithful to the Albanian church, and cursed at the national church cathedral. In the second half of the 10th century, the population of the left-bank Albania (Hereti) was included in the sphere of influence of the decision of the Chalcedon Council of the Georgian Church, adopted in the 7th century and got a great impact of Georgia.\n\nWhen the territories of Transcaucasia entered the Russian Empire, the Albanian Catholicos of the church in 1813 by the decree of Tsar Nicholas I passed into the status of the metropolite of the Albanian church.\n\nOrthodoxy became wide spread in Azerbaijan at the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nIn 1815, the first Russian Orthodox church appeared in Baku. Later such churches were built in Ganja, Goranboy (Borisi-Russian village, 1842), Shemakha (Alty-Aghadj village, 1834), Lankaran (Vel village, 1838), and Gedabek (Slavyanka village, 1844).\n\nThere were 21 sectarian villages in Baku during 1868.\n\nIn 1905, the Baku Diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church was established. During the Soviet era, the authorities repressed the priests of the Baku diocese, but in 1944 two churches were opened.\n\nIn 1998, the Baku-Caspian Diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church was established. On March 22, 2011, the decision of the Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church was changed to the Baku-Caspian diocese in Baku-Azerbaijan.\n\nIn 2011 there were six Christian Orthodox churches in the country. Five of them belong to the Russian Orthodox church (ROC): three of them are located in Baku one in Ganja and one in Khachmaz.\n\nAnother temple belongs to the jurisdiction of the Georgian Orthodox Church - the church of St. George in the village of Gakh-Inguila in the Qakh district, where the Ingiloi Georgians live compactly (about 7,500 people).\n\nIn 2013, November, President Ilham Aliyev participated in the opening ceremony of Orthodox Religious and Cultural Center of Baku and Azerbaijan Eparchy. Firstly The President visited the Holy Myrrhbearers Cathedral.\n\nThere is also the Michael Archangel’s Temple in the capital city Baku.\n\nIn 2001, during his visit to Azerbaijan, Patriarch Alexe II met with representatives of the Udin community who expressed the desire of their people to join the ROC. However, this did not lead to any real results, and the community of Udin remained outside the church's nourishment.\n\nIn May 28, 2003, the Albanian-Udin Christian community was established in Azerbaijan. The Chairman of the community was Robert Mobilea. This was due to the restoration of the ancient Kish temple in Shaki (according to legend, the foundation was laid by the apostle Eliseus). In 2006, the restoration of the second Udin temple, the church in the village of Nijgabalinsky district, was completed. Restoration works are also continued in the village of Gum of the Gakh region and the basilica in the village of Gyumriuk with the intention of restoration of the Albanian basilica which is related to the 5th century.\n\nIn 2006, the bishop of Baku and the Caspian Sea, Alexander (Ishchein), reported that Orthodox worship will be performed in Udin churches, and priests for them are trained in Russian religious schools. The Baku diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church took part in some solemn events, and even held baptisms, but there is no general progress on the involving of Udin into the ROC. Meanwhile, the Albanian-Udin Christian community exists in the form of a separate ethno-religious group with its own ideas about the \"Udin Church\", in which rituals are conducted not by canonical clergymen, but by the members of the community. In particular, the right to baptize was taken over by the Chairman of the AUHO Robert Mobilea and the self-styled \"spiritual figure\" Rafik Danakari.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2756263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2756263", "title": "Osanobua", "text": "Osanobua\n\nOsanobua is the name for God in the Edo language. It is often abbreviated as Osa, which is commonly integrated into modern Edo names, such as \"Esosa\", which means God's goodness or gift; \"Eghosa\", God's time; and \"Efosa\", God's blessings or wealth.\n\nEdo State has several areas with their own local dialects; Esan, Ewohimi, Ewato, Ewosa, Etsako, Ora, Auchi, Igueben and Iruekpen to mention but a few. The Esan people called God \"Osenebra\". It is often abbreviated as Ose. God is also described as \"Ofuekenede\" (merciful God), \"Okakaludo\" (stronger than stone), \"Obonosuobo\" (the great physician), etc.\n"}
{"id": "46746545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46746545", "title": "Palpung Europe", "text": "Palpung Europe\n\nPalpung Europe (wylie: \"dpal spungs ye shes chos 'khor gling\" དཔལ་སྤུངས་ཡེ་ཤེས་ཆོས་འཁོར་གླིང་།), fully Palpung Yeshe Chökhor Ling Europe is the European Seat of the Palpung Congregation of H. H. Chamgon Kenting Tai Situ Rinpoche which was established by and is under the direction of Chöje Lama Palmo. The City Institute is based in the Viennese Forest in Purkersdorf, the Rural Institute lies in the Bohemian Forest in the border triangle of Austria, Germany and Czech Republique, in Langschlag.\n\nPalpung Europe are Buddhist Institutes and practice groups of the Marpa Kagyu Tradition und Palpung lineage of Vajrayana. The Monastic Seat Palpung Sherab Ling in H. P., India is the Seat of the Palpung Congregation outside of Tibet. Its Supreme Head is Chamgon Kenting Tai Situ Rinpoche, currently in his 12th incarnation, is the Root guru of the 17th Gyalwa Karmapa, Orgyen Thrinle Dorje.\n\nIn 1997 Chamgon Kenting Tai Situ Rinpoche bestowed the original name. In 2004, after Chöje Lama Palmo had completed her three-year retreat under Khenpo Karthar Rinpoche in the USA, she was upon the request of individuals sent to Austria by Chamgon Tai Situ Rinpoche. First the center had its house in a rented apartment, until a house in Purkersdorf was purchased in December 2009 and the farm in Langschlag in 2014.\n\nThe activities are dedicated to preserving the lineage Buddha Shakyamuni's and to bring peace and harmony into the world. H. H. Dalai Lama and H. H. Karmapa conferred their personal blessing on March 8, 2006. Interreligious exchanges according to the Rimé movement are an important objective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12366113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12366113", "title": "Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding", "text": "Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding\n\nThe Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding (ACMCU) is an interfaith institution based at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in Washington, D.C..\n\nThe institution was founded at Georgetown University in 1993 as the Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding. It is housed within the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service.\n\nIn 2005, a wealthy Saudi Saudi prince and businessman, Al-Waleed bin Talal in 2005, gave $20 million to the Center to promote interfaith understanding and the study of Islam and the Muslim world. The center was renamed in his honor. The $20 million gift was the second-largest ever given to the Georgetown at that point. Bin Talal simultaneously gave $20 million to Harvard University's interdisciplinary Islamic studies program and $15 million to establish American studies programs at the American University in Beirut and American University in Cairo.\n\nThe founding director of the center was John Esposito. Esposito was succeeded by John O. Voll.\n\nThe Center is co-publisher (with the UK's Birmingham University Centre for the Study of Islam and Christian-Muslim Relations) of the journal \"Islam and Christian-Muslim Relations\".\n\nIn 2008, Republican U.S. Representative Frank Wolf questioned the prince's gift, and whether the center had ever been critical of the Saudi government.\n"}
{"id": "9040892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9040892", "title": "Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001", "text": "Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001\n\nThe Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001, is a statute passed by the Victorian Parliament during the Premiership of Steve Bracks. The Act makes behavior that incites or encourages hatred, serious contempt, revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group of people because of their race and/or religion unlawful in Victoria\n\nThe Act criminalises racist graffiti, racist posters, racist stickers, racist comments made in a publication, including the Internet and email, statements at a meeting or at a public rally. The Act explicitly criminalises public behavior – not personal beliefs.\n\nIn a landmark ruling on 17 December 2004, a VCAT tribunal ruled that Danny Nalliah, Daniel Scot and Catch the Fire Ministries had breached the law. The pair stood accused of making fun of Muslim beliefs and conduct that was \"hostile, demeaning and derogatory of all Muslim people, their god, Allah, the prophet Muhammad and in general Muslim religious beliefs and practices\". Nalliah publicly condemned the verdict and declared his intention to continue fighting the case, potentially as far as the High Court of Australia. \"The Age\" newspaper quoted him as stating, \"We may have lost the battle, but the war is not over. The law has to be removed, there is no question.\"\n\nThe matter was eventually resolved without a VCAT hearing after mediation between the two parties. On 22 June 2007 VCAT published a statement agreed to by both parties which affirmed everyone's rights to \"robustly debate religion including the right to criticise the religious belief of another, in a free, open and democratic society\".\n\nIn September 2017 three prominent members of the far-right United Patriots Front; Blair Cottrell, Neil Erikson and Chris Shortis, were charged with serious religious vilification, among other offenses. In September that same year they were convicted for inciting serious contempt of Muslims, each were fined $2,000.\n\nFormer state shadow Attorney general Andrew McIntosh announced prior to the 2006 election that the Liberal Party would repeal the religious section of the \"fundamentally flawed\" Act. \n\nIn January 2006, nineteen Christian leaders from Melbourne's largest churches wrote to the Premier requesting the removal of the civil provisions in the act, claiming that aspects of the religious vilification law undermines multiculturalism. \n\nIndependent MP Russell Savage, whose support helped Bracks form Government in 1999, described the act as \"the worst legislation he had ever seen passed\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25414", "title": "Religion", "text": "Religion\n\nReligion may be defined as a cultural system of designated behaviors and practices, worldviews, texts, sanctified places, prophecies, ethics, or organizations, that relates humanity to supernatural, transcendental, or spiritual elements. However, there is no scholarly consensus over what precisely constitutes a religion.\n\nDifferent religions may or may not contain various elements ranging from the divine, sacred things, faith, a supernatural being or supernatural beings or \"some sort of ultimacy and transcendence that will provide norms and power for the rest of life\". Religious practices may include rituals, sermons, commemoration or veneration (of deities), sacrifices, festivals, feasts, trances, initiations, funerary services, matrimonial services, meditation, prayer, music, art, dance, public service, or other aspects of human culture. Religions have sacred histories and narratives, which may be preserved in sacred scriptures, and symbols and holy places, that aim mostly to give a meaning to life. Religions may contain symbolic stories, which are sometimes said by followers to be true, that have the side purpose of explaining the origin of life, the universe, and other things. Traditionally, faith, in addition to reason, has been considered a source of religious beliefs.\n\nThere are an estimated 10,000 distinct religions worldwide, but about 84% of the world's population is affiliated with one of the five largest religion groups, namely Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism or forms of folk religion. The religiously unaffiliated demographic includes those who do not identify with any particular religion, atheists and agnostics. While the religiously unaffiliated have grown globally, many of the religiously unaffiliated still have various religious beliefs.<ref name=\"Pew Global Unaffiliated 12/2012\"></ref>\n\nThe study of religion encompasses a wide variety of academic disciplines, including theology, comparative religion and social scientific studies. Theories of religion offer various explanations for the origins and workings of religion, including the ontological foundations of religious being and belief.\n\n\"Religion\" (from O.Fr. \"religion\" religious community, from L. \"religionem\" (nom. \"religio\") \"respect for what is sacred, reverence for the gods, sense of right, moral obligation, sanctity\", \"obligation, the bond between man and the gods\") is derived from the Latin \"religiō\", the ultimate origins of which are obscure. One possible interpretation traced to Cicero, connects ' read, i.e. \"re\" (again) with \"lego\" in the sense of choose, go over again or consider carefully. The definition of \"religio\" by Cicero is \"cultum deorum\", \"the proper performance of rites in veneration of the gods.\" Julius Caesar used \"religio\" to mean \"obligation of an oath\" when discussing captured soldiers making an oath to their captors. The Roman naturalist Pliny the Elder, used the term \"religio\" on elephants in that they venerate the sun and the moon. Modern scholars such as Tom Harpur and Joseph Campbell favor the derivation from ' bind, connect, probably from a prefixed \"\", i.e. \"re\" (again) + \"ligare\" or to reconnect, which was made prominent by St. Augustine, following the interpretation given by Lactantius in \"Divinae institutiones\", IV, 28. The medieval usage alternates with \"order\" in designating bonded communities like those of monastic orders: \"we hear of the 'religion' of the Golden Fleece, of a knight 'of the religion of Avys'\".\n\nIn the ancient and medieval world, the etymological Latin root \"religio\" was understood as an individual virtue of worship in mundane contexts; never as doctrine, practice, or actual source of knowledge. In general, \"religio\" referred to broad social obligations towards anything including family, neighbors, rulers, and even towards God. \"Religio\" was most often used by the ancient Romans not in the context of a relation towards gods, but as a range of general emotions such as hesitation, caution, anxiety, fear; feelings of being bound, restricted, inhibited; which arose from heightened attention in any mundane context. The term was also closely related to other terms like \"scrupulus\" which meant \"very precisely\" and some Roman authors related the term \"supertitio\", which meant too much fear or anxiety or shame, to \"religio\" at times. When \"religio\" came into English around the 1200s as religion, it took the meaning of \"life bound by monastic vows\" or monastic orders. The compartmentalized concept of religion, where religious things were separated from worldly things, was not used before the 1500s. The concept of religion was first used in the 1500s to distinguish the domain of the church and the domain of civil authorities.\n\nIn the ancient Greece, the Greek term \"threskeia\" was loosely translated into Latin as \"religio\" in late antiquity. The term was sparsely used in classical Greece but became more frequently used in the writings of Josephus in the first century CE. It was used in mundane contexts and could mean multiple things from respectful fear to excessive or harmfully distracting practices of others; to cultic practices. It was often contrasted with the Greek word \"deisidaimonia\" which meant too much fear.\n\nThe modern concept of religion, as an abstraction that entails distinct sets of beliefs or doctrines, is a recent invention in the English language since such usage began with texts from the 17th century due to the splitting of Christendom during the Protestant Reformation and globalization in the age of exploration which involved contact with numerous foreign cultures with non-European languages.\nSome argue that regardless of its definition, it is not appropriate to apply the term religion to non-Western cultures. Others argue that using religion on non-western cultures distorts what people do and believe.\n\nThe concept of religion was formed in the 16th and 17th centuries, despite the fact that ancient sacred texts like the Bible, the Quran, and others did not have a word or even a concept of religion in the original languages and neither did the people or the cultures in which these sacred texts were written. For example, there is no precise equivalent of religion in Hebrew, and Judaism does not distinguish clearly between religious, national, racial, or ethnic identities. One of its central concepts is \"halakha\", meaning the walk or path sometimes translated as law, which guides religious practice and belief and many aspects of daily life. Even though the beliefs and traditions of Judaism are found in the ancient world, ancient Jews saw Jewish identity as being about an ethnic or national identity and did not entail a compulsory belief system or regulated rituals. Even in the 1st century CE, Josephus had used the Greek term \"ioudaismos\", which some translate as Judaism today, even though he used it as an ethnic term, not one linked to modern abstract concepts of religion as a set of beliefs. It was in the 19th century that Jews began to see their ancestral culture as a religion analogous to Christianity. The Greek word \"threskeia\", which was used by Greek writers such as Herodotus and Josephus, is found in the New Testament. \"Threskeia\" is sometimes translated as religion in today's translations, however, the term was understood as worship well into the medieval period. In the Quran, the Arabic word \"din\" is often translated as religion in modern translations, but up to the mid-1600s translators expressed \"din\" as law. \n\nThe Sanskrit word dharma, sometimes translated as religion, also means law. Throughout classical South Asia, the study of law consisted of concepts such as penance through piety and ceremonial as well as practical traditions. Medieval Japan at first had a similar union between imperial law and universal or Buddha law, but these later became independent sources of power.\n\nThroughout the Americas, Native Americans never had a concept of \"religion\" and any suggestion otherwise is a colonial imposition by Christians.\n\nThough traditions, sacred texts, and practices have existed throughout time, most cultures did not align with western conceptions of religion since they did not separate everyday life from the sacred. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the terms Buddhism, Hinduism, Taoism, Confucianism, and world religions first entered the English language. No one self-identified as a Hindu or Buddhist or other similar terms before the 1800s. \"Hindu\" has historically been used as a geographical, cultural, and later religious identifier for people indigenous to the Indian subcontinent. Throughout its long history, Japan had no concept of religion since there was no corresponding Japanese word, nor anything close to its meaning, but when American warships appeared off the coast of Japan in 1853 and forced the Japanese government to sign treaties demanding, among other things, freedom of religion, the country had to contend with this Western idea.\n\nAccording to the philologist Max Müller in the 19th century, the root of the English word religion, the Latin \"religio\", was originally used to mean only reverence for God or the gods, careful pondering of divine things, piety (which Cicero further derived to mean diligence). Max Müller characterized many other cultures around the world, including Egypt, Persia, and India, as having a similar power structure at this point in history. What is called ancient religion today, they would have only called law.\n\nScholars have failed to agree on a definition of religion. There are however two general definition systems: the sociological/functional and the phenomenological/philosophical.\n\nReligion is a modern Western concept. Parallel concepts are not found in many current and past cultures; there is no equivalent term for religion in many languages. Scholars have found it difficult to develop a consistent definition, with some giving up on the possibility of a definition. Others argue that regardless of its definition, it is not appropriate to apply it to non-Western cultures.\n\nAn increasing number of scholars have expressed reservations about ever defining the essence of religion. They observe that the way we use the concept today is a particularly modern construct that would not have been understood through much of history and in many cultures outside the West (or even in the West until after the Peace of Westphalia). The MacMillan Encyclopedia of Religions states:\nThe anthropologist Clifford Geertz defined religion as a\nAlluding perhaps to Tylor's \"deeper motive\", Geertz remarked that\nThe theologian Antoine Vergote took the term supernatural simply to mean whatever transcends the powers of nature or human agency. He also emphasized the cultural reality of religion, which he defined as\nPeter Mandaville and Paul James intended to get away from the modernist dualisms or dichotomous understandings of immanence/transcendence, spirituality/materialism, and sacredness/secularity. They define religion as\n"}
{"id": "180162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180162", "title": "Religion and abortion", "text": "Religion and abortion\n\nMany religious traditions have taken a stance on abortion, and these stances span a broad spectrum, as highlighted below.\n\nAbortion, for the purpose of eliminating an unwanted child, and permanent sterilization are generally forbidden to Bahá'ís unless there is some medical reason for it. At present, Bahá'ís are encouraged to decide based on their own conscience in light of general guidance found in Bahá'í writings.\n\nThere is no single Buddhist view concerning abortion. Some traditional sources, including some Buddhist monastic codes, hold that life begins at conception, and that abortion, which would then involve the deliberate destruction of life, should be rejected. Complicating the issue is the Buddhist belief that \"life is a continuum with no discernible starting point\". Among Buddhists, there is no official or preferred viewpoint regarding abortion.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has said that abortion is \"negative\", but there are exceptions. He said, \"I think abortion should be approved or disapproved according to each circumstance.\"\n\nInducing or otherwise causing an abortion is regarded as a serious matter in the monastic rules followed by both Theravada and Vajrayana monks; monks and nuns must be expelled for assisting a woman in procuring an abortion. Traditional sources do not recognize a distinction between early- and late-term abortion, but in Sri Lanka and Thailand the \"moral stigma\" associated with an abortion grows with the development of the foetus. While traditional sources do not seem to be aware of the possibility of abortion as relevant to the health of the mother, modern Buddhist teachers from many traditions – and abortion laws in many Buddhist countries – recognize a threat to the life or physical health of the mother as an acceptable justification for abortion as a practical matter, though it may still be seen as a deed with negative moral or karmic consequences.\n\nThere is scholarly disagreement on how early Christians felt about abortion, and no explicit prohibition of abortion in either the \"Old Testament\" or \"New Testament\" books of the Christian Bible. Some scholars have concluded that early Christians took a nuanced stance on what is now called abortion, and that at different times, and in separate places, early Christians have taken different stances. Other scholars have concluded that early Christians considered abortion a sin at all stages; although there is disagreement over their thoughts on what type of sin it was and how grave a sin it was held to be, it was seen as at least as grave as sexual immorality. Some early Christians believed that the embryo did not have a soul from conception, and consequently, opinion was divided as to whether or not early abortion was murder or ethically equivalent to murder.\n\nEarly church councils punished women for abortions that were combined with other sexual crimes, as well as makers of abortifacient drugs, but, like some early Church Fathers such as Basil of Caesarea, did not make distinction between \"formed\" and \"unformed\" foetuses. While Gregory of Nyssa and Maximus the Confessor held that human life already began at conception, Augustine of Hippo affirmed Aristotle's concepts of ensoulment occurring some time after conception, after which point abortion was to be considered homicide, while still maintaining the condemnation of abortion at any time from conception onward. Aquinas reiterated Aristotle's views of successive souls: vegetative, animal, and rational. This would be the Catholic Church's position until 1869, when the limitation of automatic excommunication to abortion of a \"formed\" foetus was removed, a change that has been interpreted as an implicit declaration that conception was the moment of ensoulment. Most early penitentials imposed equal penances for abortion whether early-term or late-term, but later penitentials in the Middle Ages normally distinguished between the two, imposing heavier penances for late-term abortions and a less severe penance was imposed for the sin of abortion <nowiki>\"before [the foetus] has life\".</nowiki>\n\nContemporary Christian denominations have nuanced positions, thoughts, and teachings about abortion, especially in extenuating circumstances. The Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church Oriental Orthodoxy, and most evangelical Protestants oppose deliberate abortion as immoral, while allowing what is sometimes called indirect abortion, namely, an action that does not seek the death of the foetus as an end or a means, but that is followed by the death as a side effect. Some mainline Protestant denominations such as the Methodist Church, United Church of Christ, Presbyterian Church (USA), and the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, among others, are more permissive of abortion. More generally, some Christian denominations can be considered pro-life, while others may be considered pro-choice. Additionally, there are sizable minorities in some denominations that disagree with their denomination's stance on abortion.\n\nClassical Hindu texts strongly condemn abortion. The British Broadcasting Corporation writes, \"When considering abortion, the Hindu way is to choose the action that will do least harm to all involved: the mother and father, the foetus and society.\" The BBC goes on to state, \"In practice, however, abortion is practiced in Hindu culture in India, because the religious ban on abortion is sometimes overruled by the cultural preference for sons. This can lead to abortion to prevent the birth of girl babies, which is called 'female foeticide'.\" Hindu scholars and women's rights advocates have supported bans on sex-selective abortions. Some Hindus support abortion in cases where the mother's life is at imminent risk or when the foetus has a life-threatening developmental anomaly.\n\nSome Hindu theologians and Brahma Kumaris believe personhood begins at three months and develops through to five months of gestation, possibly implying permitting abortion up to the third month and considering any abortion past the third month to be destruction of the soul's current incarnate body.\n\nAlthough there are different opinions among Islamic scholars about when life begins, and when abortion is permissible, most agree that the termination of a pregnancy after 120 days - the point at which, in Islam, a foetus is thought to become a living soul - is not permissible. Several Islamic thinkers contend that in cases prior to four months of gestation, abortion should be permissible only in instances in which the mother's life is in danger or in cases of rape.\n\nSome schools of Muslim law permit abortion in the first sixteen weeks of pregnancy, whereas others only allow it in the first seven weeks of pregnancy. The further along the pregnancy has progressed, the greater the wrong. The Qur'an does not specifically mention abortion, but it skirts the issue by condemning intentional murder. All schools accept abortion as a means to save the mother's life.\n\nOrthodox Jewish teaching allows abortion if necessary to safeguard the life of the pregnant woman. While the Reform, Reconstructionist, and Conservative movements openly advocate for the right to a safe and accessible abortion, the Orthodox movement is less unified on the issue. Many Orthodox Jews oppose abortion, except when it is necessary to save a woman's life (or, according to some, the woman's health).\n\nIn Judaism, views on abortion draw primarily upon the legal and ethical teachings of the Hebrew Bible, the Talmud, the case-by-case decisions of responsa, and other rabbinic literature. Generally speaking, Orthodox Jews oppose abortion after the 40th day, with health-related exceptions, and reform Jews tend to allow greater latitude for abortion. There are rulings that often appear conflicting on the matter. The Talmud states that a foetus is not legally a person until it is delivered. The Torah contains the law that, \"When men fight, and one of them pushes a pregnant woman, and a miscarriage results, but no other misfortune, the one responsible shall be fined...but if other misfortune ensues, the penalty shall be life (nefesh) for life (nefesh).\" (). That is, causing a woman to miscarry is a crime, but not a capital crime, because the foetus is not considered a person.\n\nJeremiah 1:5 states that, \"Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you, before you were born, I set you apart; I appointed you as a prophet to the nations.\" For some, this verse, while talking specifically about Jeremiah, is an indication that God is aware of the identity of \"developing unborn human beings even before they enter the womb\", or that for everyone, God has a plan that abortion might be seen as frustrating. Others say that this interpretation is incorrect, and that the verse is not related to personhood or abortion, as Jeremiah is asserting his prophetic status as distinct and special.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible has a few references to abortion; Exodus 21:22-25 addresses miscarriage by way of another's actions, which it describes as a non-capital offense punishable through a fine. The Book of Numbers in the Hebrew Bible describes the Ordeal of the bitter water (\"sotah\") to be administered by a priest to a wife whose husband thinks she was unfaithful. Some scholars interpret the text as involving an abortifacient potion or otherwise that induces a miscarriage if the woman is pregnant with another man's child. Rabbinical scholar Arnold Ehrlich interprets the ordeal such that it ends either harmlessly if the woman is faithful, or with an induced abortion: \"the embryo falls\".\n\nAlthough the Sikh code of conduct does not deal directly with abortion (or indeed many other bioethical issues), it is generally forbidden in Sikhism because it is said to interfere with the creative work of God. Despite this theoretical viewpoint, abortion is not uncommon among the Sikh community in India, and there is growing concern that female foetuses are being aborted because of the cultural preference for sons.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Church strongly supports abortion rights. In 1978, the Unitarian Universalist Association passed a resolution that declared, \"...<nowiki>[the]</nowiki> right to choice on contraception and abortion are important aspects of the right of privacy, respect for human life, and freedom of conscience of women and their families\". The Association had released earlier statements in 1963 and 1968 favoring the reform of restrictive abortion laws.\n\nAlthough views differ, most Wiccans consider abortion to be a spiritual decision that should be free from interference by the state or politicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "35622298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35622298", "title": "Religion and coping with trauma", "text": "Religion and coping with trauma\n\nOne of the most common ways that people cope with trauma is through the comfort found in religious or spiritual practices. Psychologists of religion have performed multiple studies to measure the positive and negative effects of this coping style. Leading researchers have split religious coping into two categories: positive religious coping and negative religious coping. Individuals who use positive religious coping are likely to seek spiritual support and look for meaning in a traumatic situation. Negative religious coping (or spiritual struggles) expresses conflict, question, and doubt regarding issues of God and faith.\n\nThe effects of religious coping are measured in many different circumstances, each with different outcomes. Some common experiences where people use religious coping are fear-inflicting events such as 9/11 or the holocaust, death and sickness, and near death experiences. Research also shows that people also use religious coping to deal with everyday stressors in addition to life-changing traumas. The underlying assumption of the ability of religion to influence the coping process lies in the hypothesis that religion is more than a defence mechanism as it was viewed by Sigmund Freud. Rather than inspiring denial, religion stimulates reinterpretations of negative events through the sacred lens.\n\nKenneth Pargament is the author of the book \"Psychology of Religion and Coping\" and a leading researcher in religious coping. Along with developing the \"RCOPE\" questionnaire to measure religious coping strategies, Pargament and his colleagues designated three basic styles of coping with stress. In Pargament's article \"Religion and the Problem-Solving Process: Three Styles of Coping\", he identifies the collaborative, self-directed, and deferring coping styles. The collaborative style of religious coping involves an active and internalized personal exchange with God. The deferring coping style is when individuals rely heavily on God and delegate their stress without taking personal responsibility for the situation. The self-directed style of religious coping emphasizes the free will given by God that allows for the individual to solve the problem on their own. The collaborative style of coping has been found to produce the most advantages in clinical settings.\n\nIn a meta-analysis of 49 studies reviewing religion as a coping method, several mechanisms of positive coping were identified. Several are listed below.\nIn the same study, negative coping strategies were also pinpointed. Some of them are listed below.\nThe study then identified forms of positive psychological adjustment, like those listed below.\nA similar list of negative psychological adjustments was compiled.\nPositive religious coping methods correlated more strongly with positive psychological adjustment than negative psychological adjustment. Similarly, negative religious coping methods correlated with negative psychological adjustment.\n\nThe September 11 attacks have been widely studied among psychologists. Research has shown that 90% of Americans coped with the stress of September 11 (2001) by \"turning to religion\". Sixty-two percent of a sample of undergraduate and graduate students reported praying to cope with the stress that followed the attacks. Further analysis showed that searching for spiritual meaning was associated with less anxiety and depression. Psychologists also examined the types of coping used and how they affected mental health outcomes. Research shows that people who used positive religious coping displayed greater optimism, less anxiety, and higher levels of positive emotion three months after the attacks. Individuals who used positive religious coping were found to have significantly more positive outcomes (closeness with God, relationships with family and friends) than those who used negative religious coping. American Muslims were another highly studied group after the attacks. Results in this area align with previous research, showing that positive religious coping is associated with posttraumatic growth, while negative religious coping predicted higher levels of depression and anxiety.\n\nIndividuals deal with the death of significant people in their lives in a variety of ways. One of the most common ways that Americans deal with the death of a loved one is by turning to religion. Although most psychologists would argue that religious coping leads to positive outcomes, some research identifies that coping using religious can lead to greater amounts of distress, especially in dealing with the loss of a family member due to homicide. Further research recognized that the role of attachment to God is very important in determining how successful religious coping will be. Research shows that secure attachment to God and a positive religious coping style is positively correlated with stress related growth, positive religious outcomes, and a developed sense of meaning. Anxious and avoidant attachments to God and negative religious coping styles were positively correlated with depression, traumatic distress, and separation distress. Furthermore, attachment to God was strongly more correlated to positive outcomes than attachment to others.\n\nNear-death experiences (NDEs) provide a unique opportunity for psychologists to study the way in which people cope with their own death. NDEs generally trigger an out-of-body experience into a realm populated with spiritual beings and have the potential to shape American attitudes toward death in general. Surveys show that five percent of Americans have a NDE, which presents a limited field to study. In general, people who have NDEs report positive outcomes including reduced anxiety, increased capacity to love, and a higher sense of meaning and purpose in life. Individuals who have NDEs often fall into Pargament's category of transformative coping. In these cases, the person is transformed into a whole new way of life and way of thinking by one supernatural experience.\n\nTwelve years ago Goldie Hawn founded MindUP: a mindfulness based initiative to help students in schools deal with stress. The program has since been implemented in schools in 28 states, and has locations in Canada, China, Serbia, Australia, and Venezuela. The program invites students to participate in 15 lessons based on neuroscience. Kimberly Schonert-Reichl an employee of MindsUP and of the University of British Columbia evaluated the effectiveness of MindUP on students grades 4 through 5. Her findings are shown below:\n\n\nEven though MindUP has had very positive effects skeptics call it religion in disguise. They claim that the mindfulness exercises such as \"belly breaths\" are Buddhist practices as a different name. In some states MindUP has been removed from schools because schools are supposed to be secular and non-religious.\n\nA study was conducted by Dr Roxane Gervais, a senior psychologist at the Health and Safety Laboratory in Stockport. She found that people who were more actively religious were more likely to report low levels of anxiety, depression and fatigue and also felt a higher presence of meaning in life. These people also took less sick days. She concluded that employers should accommodate time for employees to engage in religious beliefs while at work in order to improve performance.\n\nDespite the problems encountered when studying religion as a coping mechanism, much research suggests that using it in intervention settings when applicable may be beneficial. For example, according to a study be Wachholtz and Pargament, when identified religious people suffering from splitting migraines were exposed to meditations with religious or non-religious content, they reported less pain after the religious meditations. Such \"psychospiritual\" methods have been utilized for a while, although their applications are limited and specific from person to person.\n\nResearch in the psychology of religion often reveals different outcomes between religion and spirituality. A person's religion is a collection of belief systems and moral values, often established by a governing institution. Religion is generally more traditional, organized, and sociological. Religion is considered to be more formal and upheld than spirituality. Spirituality, on the other hand, is a measure of one's intrinsic relationship with their God. Spirituality is viewed and studied as being more free-formed and psychological. Also, spirituality is considered to be a private experience that promotes a process of growing. In the psychology of coping with trauma, religion and spirituality can play very different roles. Some research shows that religion, but not spirituality can help with coping, whereas other shows that intrinsic spirituality can be a very effective style of coping. The differences found between religious and spiritual coping may be further evidence of the role of attachment styles and types of coping used. Through religious and spiritual coping, individuals can derive support from a divine being, from other members of a religious congregation, and from making meaning of distressing events, which can lead to the promotion of resilience, healing, and well-being.\n\nStudying religion as a coping mechanism has proved a difficult task for psychologists. Religion seems to be an integral part of some people's lives but not of others, so specialists cannot be certain whether religion is the variable to study or if there is something about religious people that makes them religious that is worth studying. Many studies only measure the frequency of certain \"religious\" activities including prayer or religious service attendance; however, just because a person exhibits religious behavior does not mean that he or she uses his or her religion to cope or even adheres to the set of beliefs that constitutes a religion.\n\nMuch of the research done on religion and coping has been isolated to Christianity. Studies are being conducted to accommodate for the diversity of religions and their differences among cultures.\n\nMany studies on the subject show contrary results. For example, some psychologists conclude that religiosity has no positive or negative outcomes at all and others cite that any form of religious coping has ultimately negative effects. These results may be a product of the inconsistencies in the ways that religion is studied as a coping mechanism or could reflect biases of researchers toward a certain religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "9169274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9169274", "title": "Religion in North America", "text": "Religion in North America\n\nReligion in North America spans the period of Native American dwelling, European settlement, and the present day. Its various faiths have been a major influence on art, culture, philosophy and law.\n\nBetween them, the United States, Mexico and Canada account for 85 percent of the population of North America. Religion in each of these countries is dominated by Christianity (77.4), making it the largest religion in North America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1731525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1731525", "title": "Religion in the Faroe Islands", "text": "Religion in the Faroe Islands\n\nReligion in the Faroe Islands consists largely of the Lutheran Church of the Faroe Islands, but also includes smaller Protestant groups such as the Open Brethren, as well as a few Catholics and adherents of non-Trinitarian religions, such as the Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\nThe Church of the Faroe Islands is the established religion since it became independent in 2007; previously the Church of Denmark held that role.\n\nThe Faroe Islands, located between Scotland and Iceland, are partly ruled by Denmark, and as such the people long practiced the same religion as the Danes although religious observance is nowadays more widespread and intense among the Faroese.\n\nThe Faroe Islands became Christianized between 850 and 1000. Evidence exists for conversions by Celtic Christian missionaries as early as 850, but the Catholic Church was not established on the islands by the latter year. The \"Færeyinga saga\" is often cited with respect to the early spread of Christendom in the islands. The saga states that the king of Norway told Sigmund to go by ship to the Faroe Islands with orders from the King. Sigmund's orders were clear: he was supposed to make the 18 small islands Christian, which is what he did, according to the saga. This event is believed to have taken place around 1000, but the Faroese did not establish an organised congregation of the Catholic Church before around 1100, so there do appear to be some inconsistencies in the saga.\n\nOriginally belonging to Norway, Faroe fell under the jurisdiction of Denmark in 1523. The last Catholic Bishop of the Faroe Islands was Ámundur Ólavsson (Amund); he was replaced by the first Lutheran bishop, Jens Gregersøn Riber, in 1540.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census, there were 33,018 Christians (95.44%), 23 Muslims (0.07%), 7 Hindus (0.02%), 66 Buddhist (0.19%), 12 Jews (0.03%), 13 Baha'i (0.04%), 3 Sikh (0.01%), 149 Others (0.43%), 85 with more than one belief (0.25%) and 1,397 with no religion (4.04%).\n\nThe Catholic Church has nearly 150 adherents. There are also small groups of Seventh-day Adventists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Ahmadi Muslims and Bahá'ís in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2623640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623640", "title": "Religious fanaticism", "text": "Religious fanaticism\n\nReligious fanaticism is uncritical zeal or with an obsessive enthusiasm related to one's own, or one's group's, devotion to a religion – a form of human fanaticism which could otherwise be expressed in one's other involvements and participation, including employment, role, and partisan affinities.\n\nSteffen gives several features associated with religious fanaticism or extremism:\n\n\nEver since Christianity was established, some of those in authority have sought to expand and control the church, often through the fanatical use of force. Grant Shafer says, \"Jesus of Nazareth is best known as a preacher of nonviolence\"\n, although in Matthew 10:34 he says, \"Think not that I am come to send peace on earth; I came not to send peace, but a sword.\"\nThe start of Christian fanatic rule came with the Roman Emperor Constantine I as Catholicism. Ellens says, \"When Christianity came to power in the empire of Constantine, it proceeded almost to viciously repress all non-Christians and all Christians who did not line up with official Orthodox ideology, policy, and practice\". An example of Christians who didn't line up with Orthodox ideology is the Donatists, who \"refused to accept repentant clergy who had formerly given way to apostasy when persecuted\".\nFanatic Christian activity, as Catholicism, continued into the Middle Ages with the Crusades. These wars were attempts by the Catholics, sanctioned by the Pope, to reclaim the Holy Land from the Muslims. However many Catholics see the crusades as a just war in self-defense. Charles Selengut, in his book \"Sacred Fury: Understanding Religious Violence\", said:\n\nThe Crusades were very much holy wars waged to maintain Christianity's theological and social control. On their way to conquering the Holy Land from the Muslims by force of arms, the crusaders destroyed dozens of Jewish communities and killed thousands because the Jews would not accept the Christian faith. Jews had to be killed in the religious campaign because their very existence challenged the sole truth espoused by the Christian Church.\n\nShafer adds that, \"When the crusaders captured Jerusalem in 1099, they killed Muslims, Jews, and native Christians indiscriminately\".\nAnother prominent form of fanaticism according to some came a few centuries later with the Spanish Inquisition. The Inquisition was the monarchy's way of making sure their people stayed within Catholic Christianity. Selengut said, \"The inquisitions were attempts at self-protection and targeted primarily \"internal enemies\" of the church\". The driving force of the Inquisition was the Inquisitors, who were responsible for spreading the truth of Christianity. Selengut continues, saying:\n\nThe inquisitors generally saw themselves as educators helping people maintain correct beliefs by pointing out errors in knowledge and judgment... Punishment and death came only to those who refused to admit their errors ... during the Spanish Inquisitions of the fifteenth century, the clear distinction between confession and innocence and remaining in error became muddled... The investigators had to invent all sorts of techniques, including torture, to ascertain whether ... new converts' beliefs were genuine.\n\nExtremism within Islam goes back to the 7th century to the Kharijites. From their essentially political position, they developed extreme doctrines that set them apart from both mainstream Sunni and Shiʿa Muslims. The Kharijites were particularly noted for adopting a radical approach to Takfir, whereby they declared other Muslims to be unbelievers and therefore deemed them worthy of death.\nSayyid Qutb, a figurehead of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, was influential in promoting a Pan-Islamist ideology in the 1960s. When Qutb was executed by the Egyptian government, Ayman al-Zawahiri formed the organization Egyptian Islamic Jihad to replace the government with an Islamic state that would reflect Qutb's ideas for Islamic revival. The Qutbist ideology has been influential in jihadist movements that seek to overthrow secular governments, and Qutb's books have been frequently been cited by Osama bin Laden and Anwar al-Awlaki.\n\nSince Osama bin Laden's fatwa in 1998, radical jihad has increasingly become an internationally recognized term. Bin Laden's concept, though, is very different from the actual meaning of the term. In the religious context, \"jihad\" most nearly means \"working urgently for a certain godly objective, generally an imperialist one\". The word jihad in Arabic means 'struggle'. The struggle can be a struggle of implementing the Islamic values in daily activities, a struggle with others to counter arguments against Islam, or self-defense when physically attacked because of belief in Islam. According to Steffen, there are portions of the Qur'an where military jihad is used. As Steffen says, though, \"Jihad in these uses is always defensive. Not only does ‘jihad' not endorse acts of military aggression, but ‘jihad' is invoked in Qur'anic passages to indicate how uses of force are always subject to restraint and qualification\". This kind of jihad differs greatly from the kind most commonly discussed today.\n\nThomas Farr, in an essay titled \"Islam's Way to Freedom\", says that, \"Even though most Muslims reject violence, the extremists' use of sacred texts lends their actions authenticity and recruiting power\". (Freedom 24) He goes on to say, \"The radicals insist that their central claim – God's desire for Islam's triumph – requires no interpretation. According to them, true Muslims will pursue it by any means necessary, including dissimulation, civil coercion, and the killing of innocents\". (Freedom 24)\n\nAccording to certain observers this disregard for others and rampant use of violence is markedly different from the peaceful message that jihad is meant to employ. Although fanatic jihadists have committed many terroristic acts throughout the world, perhaps the best known is the September 11 attacks. According to Ellens, the al-Qaeda members who took part in the terrorist attacks did so out of their belief that, by doing it, they would \"enact a devastating blow against the evil of secularized and non-Muslim America. They were cleansing this world, God's temple\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10482222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10482222", "title": "Religious fraud", "text": "Religious fraud\n\nReligious fraud is a term used for civil or criminal fraud carried out in the name of a religion or within a religion, e.g. false claims to being kosher or tax fraud.\n\nA specific form of religious fraud is pious fraud (Latin: \"pia fraus\"), whereby one employs lies and/or deception in order to convince others of the truth of one's own religion or specific religious claims. Sometimes these involve 'white lies': the perpetrator may think it more important to make others accept a certain belief than that the method is truthful; this end justifies the means of a lie. A well-known example is the Shroud of Turin, a late Medieval fabrication that supposedly was the clothing in which Jesus would have been buried in the 1st century.\n"}
{"id": "5851271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5851271", "title": "Religious goods store", "text": "Religious goods store\n\nA religious goods store or religious supplies shop is a store specializing in supplying materials used in the practice of Chinese folk religion, Taoism and Chinese Buddhism.\n\nThese shops are abundant across the Greater Chinese region as well as Overseas Chinese communities around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "707043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707043", "title": "Skeptic (US magazine)", "text": "Skeptic (US magazine)\n\nSkeptic, colloquially known as Skeptic magazine, is a quarterly science education and science advocacy magazine published internationally by The Skeptics Society, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting scientific skepticism and resisting the spread of pseudoscience, superstition, and irrational beliefs. Founded by Michael Shermer, founder of the Skeptics Society, the magazine was first published in the spring of 1992 and is published through Millennium Press.\nShermer remains the Publisher and Editor-in-Chief of the magazine and the magazine’s Co-publisher and Art Director is Pat Linse. Other noteworthy members of its editorial board include, or have included, Oxford University evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, Pulitzer Prize-winning scientist Jared Diamond, magician and escape artist turned educator James “The Amazing” Randi, actor, comedian, and \"Saturday Night Live \" alumna Julia Sweeney, professional mentalist Mark Edward, science writer Daniel Loxton, Lawrence M. Krauss and Christof Koch.\n\"Skeptic\" has an international circulation with over 50,000 subscriptions and is on newsstands in the U.S. and Canada as well as Europe, Australia, and other countries.\n\nThe cover story of the magazine's very first issue paid tribute to scientist and science-fiction writer Isaac Asimov.\n\nEvery issue of the magazine opens with a description of The Skeptics Society and its mission statement, which is to explore subjects such as creationism, pyramid power, Bigfoot, pseudohistorical claims (as in the examples of Holocaust denial and extreme Afrocentrism), the use or misuse of theory and statistics, conspiracy theories, urban myths, witch-hunts, mass hysterias, genius and intelligence, and cultural influences on science, as well as controversies involving protosciences at the leading edge of established science, and even fads like cryonics and low-carb diets. In addition to publishing the magazine, the Society also:\n\n\nIn 2011, the magazine had three regular columnists: James Randi wrote \"’Twas Brillig…,\" Harriet A. Hall wrote \"The Skep Doc\" and Karen Stollznow wrote \"Bad Language\".\nThe magazine's page count was between approximately 100 and 110 pages until the 2010s. It was reduced to approximately 80 pages with Vol. 16 No. 3 (2011). , the magazine had two regular columnists: Harriet A. Hall and Carol Tavris.\n\nEach issue features an editorial. In the past this was provided by James Randi, and was often a reaction to stories from mainstream news media such as the 2005 story by the ABC newsmagazine \"Primetime Live\" featuring a Brazilian faith healer, João Teixeira. Other times Randi wrote about topics he had investigated in the past, such as alleged dowsers, alleged psychics like Sylvia Browne, and UFOs.\n\nThe magazine also features a large correspondence section called \"Forum\". This includes not only letters from lay readers but also in-depth comments and rebuttals from professionals, contributing to extended academic debate across issues raised in past editions.\n\nThe bulk of the magazine treats a variety of topics. Cover stories have ranged from examination of alleged UFOs in religious icons and theories of the likelihood of artificial intelligence to tributes to luminaries such as Isaac Asimov and Ernst Mayr. Some editions feature special sections devoted to a particular topic or theme that is examined through multiple articles by different authors, such as intelligent design - a frequently recurring topic in the magazine, given the ongoing creation vs. evolution controversy.\n\nBound into most issues is a 10-page young-readers' section called \"Junior Skeptic\". Heralded by a cover printed on glossy paper (the rest of the magazine is printed on non-glossy stock), \"Junior Skeptic\" focuses on one topic, or provides practical instruction written and illustrated in a style more appealing to children.\n\nDaniel Loxton is the Editor of \"Junior Skeptic\". He writes and illustrates most issues.\n\nThe first edition of \"Junior Skeptic\" appeared in volume 6, #2 of \"Skeptic\" (2000).\nIn April 2006, an independent, skeptical talk program called \"Skepticality\" was relaunched as \"Skepticality: The Official Podcast of Skeptic Magazine\". New episodes of the show are released on a biweekly basis. The show is produced by the original, continuing show hosts (Robynn McCarthy and Derek Colanduno) in collaboration with staff of \"Skeptic\" magazine.\n\nIn 2009, a second official podcast was added. \"MonsterTalk\" critically examines the science behind cryptozoological and legendary creatures, such as Bigfoot, the Loch Ness Monster and\nwerewolves. \"Monster Talk\" is hosted by Blake Smith, Ben Radford and Dr. Karen Stollznow. Blake Smith produces the show.\n\n\nThe editorial board is composed of the following people:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20412489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20412489", "title": "Society for the Scientific Study of Religion", "text": "Society for the Scientific Study of Religion\n\nThe Society for the Scientific Study of Religion (founded in 1949) was formed to advance research in the social scientific perspective on religious institutions and experiences.\n\nThe \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\" is published by the Society to provide a forum for empirical papers in the topic area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6747138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6747138", "title": "Stefanus Alliance International", "text": "Stefanus Alliance International\n\nStefanus Alliance International (SAINT) is a religious freedom and human rights organization with historical roots in Christian missions work, dedicated to defending freedom of belief and religion as expressed in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The organization is based in Oslo, Norway. Its motto, designated in 1996, is: \"Together for the persecuted.\"\n\n\"Stefanus Alliance International\" was established in 1967 by Monrad Norderval, Anutza Moise, Vemund Skard, Else-Marie Skard and Gulbrand Øverbye. It was earlier known as the \"Mission Behind the Iron Curtain\", or the \"Norwegian Mission to the East.\" The organization decided at its meeting of October 29, 2011 to change its name to \"Stefanus Alliance International\" as of January 1, 2012. \n\n\"Stefanus Alliance International\" provides support, care, and practical help for churches and individuals who are persecuted or oppressed because of their religious beliefs. The organisation also advocates on behalf of Christians and others who have had their religious rights violated. It commissioned a radio in 1968, published the newspaper \"Ropet fra Øst\" in 1971, and helped establish Forum 18 news service in 2003.\n\nThe NGO is a partner in the international Christian Solidarity Worldwide network since 2001.\n\n\"Stefanus Alliance International\" awards the Stefanus Prize, a prestigious human rights prize to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to the work for freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Despite having historical roots as a Christian missions organization, \"Stefanus Alliance International\" in awarding the Stefanus Prize has recognized the efforts of individuals across different faiths.\n\nThe organisation is currently led by secretary-general Hilde Skaar Vollebæk. Former secretary generals include Lasse Trædal (1982-1989), John Victor Selle (1989-2002), Bjørn Wegge (2002-2013) and Hans Aage Gravaas (2013-2017).\n\nOn January 3, 2018, \"Stefanus Alliance International\" announced its search for a new secretary-general to replace Hilde Skaar Vollebæk. On April 3, 2018, \"Stefanus Alliance International\" publicized its decision to appoint Ed Brown as the new secretary-general as of August 1, 2018.\n\n"}
